1. According to paragraph 1, what was true of Europe during the medieval period?
○ Agricultural productivity declined.
○ There was relatively little economic growth.
○ The general level of prosperity declined.
○ Foreign trade began to play an important role in the economy.


2. The word key in the passage is closest in meaning to
○ historical
○ many
○ important
○ hidden


3. According to paragraph 2, one effect of the desire to increase food production was that
○ land was cultivated in a different way
○ more farmers were needed
○ the rural economy was weakened
○ forests and wetlands were used for farming


4. According to paragraph 3, what was one reason villages had such great economic potential?
○ Villages were located in regions where agricultural production was relatively advanced.
○ Villages were relatively small in population and size compared with urban areas.
○ Some village inhabitants made investments in industrial development.
○ Village inhabitants established markets within their villages.


5. Paragraph 4 supports the idea that increased agricultural production was important for the expansion of industry primarily because it.
○ increased the number of available workers in rural areas
○ provided new types of raw materials for use by industry
○ resulted in an improvement in the health of the rural cottage workers used by manufacturers
○ helped repair some of the ravages of the Thirty Years’ War


6. The word meager in the passage is closest in meaning to
○ very necessary
○ very low
○ traditional
○ primary


7. Why does the author mention that English and Dutch ships carrying rye from the Baltic states reached Spain and Portugal?
○ To suggest that England and the Netherlands were the two most important trading nations in seventeenth-century Europe
○ To suggest how extensive trading relations were
○ To contrast the importance of agricultural products with manufactured products
○ To argue that shipping introduced a range of new products


8. By including the quotation in paragraph 6 by the financier from Antwerp, the author is emphasizing that
○ sailing was an important aspect of the economy
○ increasing the number of water routes made trade possible
○ bills of exchange were necessary for successful trading
○ financiers often exaggerated the need for bills of exchange


9. According to paragraph 6, merchants were able to avoid the risk of carrying large amounts of gold and silver by
○ using third parties in Marseille to buy goods for them
○ doing all their business by using Dutch currency
○ paying for their purchases through bills of exchange
○ waiting to pay for goods until the goods had been delivered


10. According to paragraph 7, until the eighteenth century, it was the principal function of which of the following to provide funds for the state?
○ Bills of exchange
○ Exchangers who took loans
○ Banks
○ Business investment


11. The phrase an English innovation in the passage is closest in meaning to
○ a new development introduced by the English
○ an arrangement found only in England
○ a type of agreement negotiated in English
○ a type of partnership based on English law


12. According to paragraph 8, each of the following was a source of funds used to finance economic expansion EXCEPT
○ groups of investors engaged in short-term financial cooperation
○ the state
○ wealthy merchants
○ joint-stock companies


13. Look at the four squares [■] that indicate where the following sentence could be added to the passage.
They could also avoid having to identify and assess the value of a wide variety of coins issued in many different places.
Where would the sentence best fit?


14. Directions: An introductory sentence for a brief summary of the passage is provided below. Complete the summary by selecting the THREE answer that express the most important ideas in the passage. Some sentences do not belong in the summary because they express ideas that not presented in the passage or are minor ideas in the passage. This question is worth 2 points.
In late sixteenth-and early seventeenth-century Europe, increased agricultural production and the expansion of trade were important in economic growth
Answer choices
○ Bringing more land under cultivation produced enough food to create surpluses for trade and investment as well as for supporting the larger populations that led to the growth of rural industry.
○ Most rural villages established an arrangement with a nearby urban center that enabled villagers to take advantage of urban markets to sell any handicrafts they produced.
○ Increases in population and the expansion of trade led to increased manufacturing, much of it small-scale in character but some requiring significant capital investment.
○ Increased capital was required for the production of goods, for storage, for trade, and for the provision of credit throughout of Europe as well as distant markets overseas.
○ Bills of exchange were invented in medieval Italy but became less important as banks began to provide loans for merchants.
○ The expansion of trade was facilitated by developments in banking and financial services and benefitted from the huge influx of capital in the form of gold silver from the Americas.


