1. The word regarded in the passage is closest in meaning to
○analyzed
○considered
○altered
○criticized


2. According to paragraph 1, which of the following is the most significant development in the history of film?
○The technological innovation of sound film during the 1920s
○The development of a technology for translating films into other languages
○To argue that dams should not be built on the Euphrates River
○The technological improvements allowing clearer images in films


3. The word paradoxes in the passage is closest in meaning to
○difficulties
○accomplishments
○parallels
○contradictions


4. Why does the author mention Japanese benshi and original musical compositions?
○To suggest that audiences preferred other forms of entertainment to film before the transition to sound inthe1920's
○To provide examples of some of the first sounds that were recorded for film.
○To indicate some ways in which sound accompanied film before the innovation of sound films in the late 1920s
○To show how the use of sound in films changed during different historical periods


5. Paragraph 2 suggests which of the following about Eisenstein’s film The Battleship Potemkirf?
○The film was not accompanied by sound before its Berlin screening.
○The film was unpopular in the Soviet Union before it was screened in Berlin.
○Eisenstein’s film was the first instance of collaboration between a director and a composer.
○Eisenstein believed that the musical score in a film was as important as dialogue.


6. The word overshadowed in the passage is closest in meaning to
○distracted from
○explained
○conducted
○coordinated with


7. According to paragraph 3, which of the following is NOT true of the technological and aesthetic experiments of the 1920's?
○Because the costs of introducing recorded sound were low, it was the only innovation that was put to use inthe1920's.
○The introduction of recorded sound prevented the development of other technological innovations in the 1920's
○The new technological and aesthetic developments of the 1920s included the use of color, new screen formats, and television.
○Many of the innovations developed in the 1920s were not widely introduced until as late as the 1950's.


8. Which of the sentences below best expresses the essential information in the highlighted sentence in the passage? Incorrect choices change the meaning in important ways or leave out essential information.
○It was difficult for some critics in the 1920s to imagine why the idea of sound film had faded from sight well before the First World War.
○As surprising as it seems today, some critics in the 1920s believed that the new attempts at sound films would fade just as quickly as the attempts made before the First World War.
○Though some early critics thought that sound film would fade, its popularity during the First World War proved that it was not simply a technical novelty.
○Although some critics predicted well before the First World War that sound film would be an important technical innovation, it was not attempted until the 1920s.


9. The word neglected in the passage is closest in meaning to
○failed
○needed
○started
○expected


10. According to paragraph 4, which of the following is true about the technical problems of early sound films?
○Linking images with recorded sound was a larger obstacle than weak sound amplification or fragile sound recordings
○Sound films in the 1920s were unable to solve the technical flaws found in sound films before the First World War.
○Technical inadequacies occurred less frequently in early sound films than critics suggested
○Critics assumed that it would be impossible to overcome the technical difficulties experienced with earlier sound films.


11. In paragraph 5, commercial radio programming is best described as the result of
○a financially successful development that enabled large telecommunications firms to weaken their competition.
○the desire of electronics and telecommunications companies to make sound technology profitable.
○a major development in the broadcasting industry that occurred before the 1920s.
○the cooperation between telecommunications companies and the motion picture industry


12. According to paragraph 6, which of the following accounts for the delay in the conversion to sound films in Europe?
○European producers often lacked knowledge about the necessary equipment for the transition to sound films.
○Smaller European producers were often unable to afford to add sound to their films.
○It was often difficult to wire older cinemas in the major cities to play sound films.
○Smaller European producers believed that silent films with music accompaniment were aesthetically superior to sound films.


13. Look at the four squares [■] that indicate where the following sentence could be added to the passage.
When this research resulted in the development of vastly improved sound techniques, film studios became convinced of the importance of converting to sound.
Where would the sentence best fit?
○Although music and speech had frequently accompanied film presentations before the 1920s, there was a strong desire to add sound to the films themselves.
○Because of intense interest in developing and introducing sound in film, the general use of other technological innovations being developed in the 1920s was delayed.
○The rapid progress in sound technology made possible by the involvement of telecommunications companies transformed the motion picture industry.
○Japanese filmmakers had developed the technology for creating sound films before directors in Europe and the United States began experimenting with sound
○Before the First World War, film directors showed little interest in linking images with recorded sound
○The arrival of sound film technology in the United States forced smaller producers in the motion picture industry out of business.


