1. Fluke: the two parts that constitute the large triangular tail of a whale
2. "Blowhole: a hole in the top of the head used for breathing


1. In paragraph 1, what does the author say about the presence of a blowhole in cetaceans?
○It clearly indicates that cetaceans are mammals.
○It cannot conceal the fact that cetaceans are mammals.
○It is the main difference between cetaceans and land-dwelling mammals.
○It cannot yield clues about the origins of cetaceans.


2. Which of the following can be inferred from paragraph 1 about early sea otters?
○It is not difficult to imagine what they looked like
○There were great numbers of them.
○They lived in the sea only.
○They did not leave many fossil remains.


3. The word precious in the passage is closest in meaning to
○Exact
○Scarce
○Valuable
○Initial


4. Pakicetus and modern cetaceans have similar
○Hearing structures
○Adaptations for diving
○Skull shapes
○Breeding locations


5. The word it in the passage refers to
○Pakicetus
○Fish
○Life
○ocean


6. The word exposed in the passage is closest in meaning to
○Explained
○Visible
○Identified
○Located


7. The hind leg of Basilosaurus was a significant find because it showed that Basilosaurus
○Lived later than Ambulocetus natans
○Lived at the same time as Pakicetus
○Was able to swim well
○Could not have walked on land


8. It can be inferred that Basilosaurus bred and gave birth in which of the following locations
○On land
○Both on land and at sea
○In shallow water
○In a marine environment


9. Why does the author use the word luckily in mentioning that the Ambulocetus natans fossil included hind legs?
○Fossil legs of early whales are a rare find.
○The legs provided important information about the evolution of cetaceans.
○The discovery allowed scientists to reconstruct a complete skeleton of the whale.
○Until that time, only the front legs of early whales had been discovered.


10. Which of the sentences below best expresses the essential information in the highlighted sentence in the passage?
Incorrect choices change the meaning in important ways or leave out essential information.
○Even though Ambulocetus swam by moving its body up and down, it did not have a backbone.
○The backbone of Ambulocetus, which allowed it to swim, provides evidence of its missing fluke.
○Although Ambulocetus had no fluke, its backbone structure shows that it swam like modern whales.
○By moving the rear parts of their bodies up and down, modern whales swim in a different way from the way Ambulocetus swam.


11. The word propulsion in the passage is closest in meaning to
○Staying afloat
○Changing direction
○Decreasing weight
○Moving forward


12. Look at the four squares [■] that indicate where the following sentence can be added to the passage.
This is a question that has puzzled scientists for ages.
Where would the sentence best fit?
○Recent discoveries of fossils have helped to show the link between land mammals and cetaceans.
○The discovery of Ambulocetus natans provided evidence for a whale that lived both on land and at sea.
○The skeleton of Basilosaurus was found in what had been the Tethys Sea, an area rich in fossil evidence.
○Pakicetus is the oldest fossil whale yet to be found.
○Fossils thought to be transitional forms between walking mammals and swimming whales were found.
○Ambulocetus' hind legs were used for propulsion in the water.


