3. According to paragraph 1, before the thirteenth century the people of southwestern North America lived in households that
○shared daily chores with neighboring households
○occupied dwellings that were built into the sides of cliffs
○were largely free to conduct their lives as they pleased
○enforced common standards of behavior and cooperative conduct within their communities


4.  Which of the following best indicates the organization of paragraph 1?
○It presents the conditions that caused a change in a population' s living patterns and then explains why those conditions got worse.
○It identifies certain present-day cultural traditions and rules and then traces them to their roots in the thirteenth century.
○It casts doubt on one explanation of the move to pueblos and then introduces an alternative explanation that the passage will defend.
○It describes a major change in a population' s living patterns and then presents a number of problems that resulted from that change.


5. According to paragraph 3, which of the following was one of the consequences of increasing population densities?
○ People were increasingly crowded into collections of large housing units.
○People stopped planting crops that have relatively low yields.
○Domestic buildings were pushed beyond the canyon limits.
○The natural landscape was destroyed.
○Some scholars even claim that the intensification of farmers' various efforts during the 1200s led to further population growth and the consequent need for more arable land.
○Evidence of intensifying agriculture in the 1200s indicates a need to feed a larger population and so extends the argument that a growing population was the cause of the move to pueblos.
○During the 1200s, farmers met the demand for more arable land, but they also succeeded in cultivating existing land more intensively with the help of agricultural construction projects.
○Some scholars feel strongly that the construction of small dams, reservoirs, terraces, and field houses in the thirteenth century is independent evidence for growth in the number of people.


7. The word transition in the passage is closest in meaning to
○change
○climate
○decline
○problem
○To explain why the higher elevations were always relatively sparsely populated
○To suggest that any worsening of conditions would have significant consequences
○To emphasize how resourceful the people growing food at these elevations were
○To argue that farming was not the primary source of food at high elevations
○Moved to areas away from Mesa Verde
○Moved closer to the northeastern part of Mesa Verde
○Began to cultivate crops adapted to a short growing season
○Gave up the cultivation of the highest-lying lands
○leaders to persuade people from the countryside to move into a pueblo
○farmers to collect information about where crops could be reliably grown
○people to develop better techniques for producing pottery and crafts
○people in the early Puebloan era to share farm and craft products
○The climate in the Mesa Verde area became more locally diverse.
○Individuals were no longer interested in exchanging pottery and food.
○Cooperation between people became more important for survival.
○Bad years of farming began to occur more frequently.
○ Cooperation allowed many households to give up farming and to specialize in making pottery and crafts.
○People went from exchanging food and crafts they individually produced to sharing in a cooperative effort to produce as much food as possible.
○ Overtime there was less cooperation as farmers competed with each other for trade with distant areas.
○ Individuals stopped cooperating with each other because they did not have enough food for themselves.


13. Look at the four squares [■] that indicate where the following sentence could be added to the passage.
Performing everyday household tasks required more effort.
Where would the sentence best fit? Click on a square to add the sentence to the passage.


14. Directions: An introductory sentence for a brief summary of the passage is provided below. Complete the summary by selecting the THREE answer choices that express the most important ideas in the passage. Some      sentences do not belong in the summary because they express ideas that are not presented in the passage or are minor ideas in the passage.
○Because the thirteenth-century inhabitants of the Mesa Verde area did not have the cultural expectations of today's city dwellers, they easily adapted to communal life.
○Even though living in pueblos had disadvantages, the population of the area had grown so large that there may have been no other arrangement that would have met its needs.
○From the eleventh century onward, farmers began to increase food production on existing farmland and started bringing more land under cultivation.
○A development that contributed to increasing population densities was a cooling climate that led many people to leave the coldest areas and crowd into climatically more favorable areas.
○The primary reason for moving to pueblos was the social benefits associated with communal life.
○People were brought together by the need to produce food cooperatively, as the use of food surpluses in one place to relieve shortages in another ended due to a change in climate.


