1. According to paragraph 1, which of the following must we find out in order to determine the impact of human activities upon climate?
○ The major changes in climate over the past millennia
○ The degree to which the climate varies naturally
○ The best method for measuring climatic change
○ The millennium when humans began to interfere with the climate


2. According to paragraph 2, an advantage of proxy records over instrumental records is that
○ they are more-reliable measures of climatic variability in the past century
○ they provide more-accurate measures of local temperatures
○ they provide information on climate fluctuations further back in time
○ they reveal information about the human impact on the climate


3. Which of the sentences below best expresses the essential information in the highlighted sentence in the passage? Incorrect choices change the meaning in important ways or leave out essential information
○ Because physical and chemical properties of substances are unchanging, they are useful records of climate fluctuations over time
○ For hundreds or thousands of years, people have been observing changes in the chemical and physical properties of substances in order to infer climate change
○ Because it takes long periods of time for the climate to change, systematic changes in the properties of substances are difficult to observe.
○ Changes in systematically deposited substances that are affected by climate can indicate climate variations over time.


4. According to paragraph 3, scientists are able to reconstruct proxy temperature records by
○ studying regional differences in temperature variations
○ studying and dating changes in the properties of substances
○ observing changes in present day climate conditions
○ inferring past climate shifts from observations of current climatic changes


5. The word striking in the passage is closest in meaning to
○ noticeable
○ confusing
○ true
○ unlikely


6. According to paragraphs 3 and 4, proxy data have suggested all of the following about the climate EXCEPT:
○ Regional climates may change overtime.
○ The climate has changed very little in the past 10.000 years.
○ Global temperatures vary more than regional temperatures.
○ Important natural changes in climate have occurred over large timescales.


7. The word erratic in the passage is closest in meaning to
○ dramatic
○ important
○ unpredictable
○ common


8. All of the following are mentioned in paragraph 5 as natural causes of climate change EXCEPT
○ atmospheric changes
○ the slow movement of landmasses
○ fluctuations in the amount of ice and snow
○ changes in ocean activity


9. According to paragraph 6, which of the following is true of computer models of the global climate?
○ The information they produce is still limited.
○ They are currently most useful in understanding past climatic behaviors.
○ They allow researchers to interpret the data obtained from proxy records.
○ They do not provide information about regional climates


10. The word deliberations in the passage is closest in meaning to
○ records
○ discussions
○ results
○ variations


11. The word invoked in the passage is closest in meaning to
○ demonstrated
○ called upon
○ supported
○ expected


12. What is the author's purpose in presenting the information in paragraph 7?
○ To compare the influence of volcanoes and solar activity on climate variability with the influence of factors external to the global climate system
○ To indicate that there are other types of influences on climate variability in addition to those previously discussed
○ To explain how external influences on climate variability differ from internal influences
○ To argue that the rapid warming of Earth in recent decades cannot be explained


13. Look at the four squares [■] that indicate where the following sentence could be added to the passage.
Indeed, the contribution of volcanoes and solar activity would more likely have been to actually reduce the rate of warming slightly.
Where would the sentence best fit?
○ In the absence of instrumental records, proxy data allow scientists to infer information about past climates.
○ Scientists see a consistent pattern in the global temperature variations that have occurred in the past.
○ Computer models are used to estimate how the different causes of climate variability combine to account for the climate variability that occurs.
○ Scientists have successfully separated natural climate variation from changes related to human activities.
○ Scientists believe that activities outside the global climate system, such as volcanoes and solar activity may have significant effects on the system.
○ Scientists have concluded that human activity accounts for the rapid global warming in recent decades.


