1. The phrase interplay in the passage is closest in meaning to
○sequence
○interpretation
○requirement
○interaction


2. According to paragraph 1, what pattern did scientists notice when the known elements were written in order of increasing atomic mass?
○The elements of the group of alkali metals were the first elements in the order of increasing atomic mass.
○Repetition of the same atomic masses for elements in different groups appeared.
○Elements with similar chemical properties appeared in the listing at regular intervals.
○Elements were chemically most similar to those just before and after them in the order.


3. In paragraph 2, what is the author's purpose in presenting the information about the decision by Meyer and Mendeleyev to leave gaps in the periodic table?
○To illustrate their confidence that the organizing principles of the periodic table would govern the occurrence of all chemical elements
○To indicate that some of their analyses of periodic physical and chemical properties were later found to be wrong
○To support the idea that they were unwilling to place new elements in the periodic table
○To indicate how they handled their disagreement about where to place new elements


4. What reason does the author provide for the claim that Mendeleyev was bolder than Meyer?
○Mendeleyev corrected incorrect information Meyer had proposed.
○Mendeleyev assumed that some information believed to be true about the elements was incorrect.
○Mendeleyev argued that Meyer had not left enough gaps in the periodic table.
○Mendeleyev realized that elements were not ordered by atomic mass in the periodic table.


5. According to paragraph 2, why did Mendeleyev suggest changing the atomic mass of indium?
○Because indium did not fit into the periodic table in the place predicted by its atomic mass
○Because there was experimental evidence that the atomic mass that had been assigned to indium was incorrect
○Because there was an empty space between cadmium and tin in the periodic table
○Because the chemical properties of indium were similar to those of arsenic and selenium


6. It can be inferred from paragraph 2 that tellurium comes before iodine in the periodic table even though tellurium's atomic mass is slightly greater because
○iodine is less common than tellurium
○both iodine and tellurium have no isotopes
○the chemical behavior of tellurium is highly variable
○the atomic number of tellurium is smaller than that of iodine


7. The phrase abundance in the passage is closest in meaning to
○weight
○requirement
○plenty
○sequence


8. The phrase analogous to in the passage is closest in meaning to
○predicted by
○expected of
○similar to
○superior to


9. Paragraph 3 suggests that Mendeleyev predicted the properties of eka-aluminum on the basis of
○the atomic mass of aluminum
○the position of the gap in the periodic table that eka-aluminum was predicted to fill
○the similarity of eka-aluminum to the other five missing elements
○observation of the properties of gallium


10. It can be inferred from paragraph 3 that the significance of the discovery of gallium was that it supported which of the following?
○The idea that aluminum was correctly placed in the periodic table
○Mendeleyev's prediction that eka-silicon would be discovered next
○The organizing principle of the periodic table
○The idea that unknown elements existed


11. Which of the sentences below best expresses the essential information in the highlighted sentence in the passage? Incorrect choices change the meaning in important ways or leave out essential information.
○Ramsay found evidence of helium in the spectrum of sunlight before he discovered that the element was also contained in natural gas deposits on Earth.
○Ramsay thought he had discovered a new element present in natural gas deposits, but he was wrong since that element had been previously observed elsewhere on Earth.
○After Ramsay had discovered a new element, called helium, in natural gas deposits on Earth, he also found evidence of its presence in the Sun.
○Ramsay later discovered that helium, an element that was already known to be present in the Sun, was also present in natural gas deposits on Earth.


12. The word postulated in the passage is closest in meaning to
○hypothesized
○discovered
○reported
○generated


13. Look at the four squares [■] that indicate where the following sentence could be added to the passage.
It was a natural Idea to break up the series of elements at the points where the sequence of chemical groups to which the elements belonged began to repeat itself.
Where would the sentence best fit?


14. Directions: An introductory sentence for a brief summary of the passage is provided below. Complete the summary by selecting the THREE answer choices that express the most important ideas in the passage. Some sentences do not belong in the summary because they express ideas that are not presented in the passage or are minor ideas in the passage. This question is worth 2 points.
○ Lord Rayleigh provided evidence that the structure of the I—Ramsay and Lord Rayleigh challenged the importance of the periodic table limited the potential number of elements.
○ Chemical research that Henry Cavendish had done a centuryearlier.
○ Isotopes of a given element have exactly the same physical properties, but their chemical properties are slightly different.
○ Mendeleyev and Meyer organized the known elements into a F chart that revealed periodic recurrences of chemical and physical properties.
○ Mendeleyev's successful prediction of the properties of then- r unknown elements lent support to the acceptance of the periodic law.
○In the 1890's, Ramsay and Lord Rayleigh isolated argon and proposed the existence of a new series of elements.


1. According to the passage, each of the following statements comparing terrestrial planets with Jovian planets is true EXCEPT:
○Terrestrial planets are closer to the Sun than Jovian planets.
○Terrestrial planets have smaller diameters than Jovian planets.
○Terrestrial planets have smaller masses than Jovian planets.
○Terrestrial planets travel in a different direction than Jovian planets do.


2. The word markedly in the passage is closest in meaning to
○Essentially
○Typically
○Consistently
○noticeably


3. Paragraph 4 mentions which of the following as a reason why terrestrial planets are dense?
○They are made up of three groups of substances.
○They are composed mainly of rocky and metallic materials.
○They contain more ice than Jovian planets.
○They contain relatively small amounts of water.


4. Paragraph 4 supports each of the following statements about Saturn EXCEPT:
○It is less dense than any of the terrestrial planets.
○It contains no rocky material.
○It contains ices.
○It contains a large percentage of gases.


5. The word meager in the passage is closest in meaning to
○over time
○long ago
○simply
○certainly


6. According to paragraph 5, which of the following statements is true of both Jovian and terrestrial planets?
○ The thicker the atmosphere, the smaller the planet’s mass
○ The more varied the gases in the atmosphere, the higher the temperature
○ The higher the surface gravity, the higher the escape velocity
○ The less the atmosphere contributes to the total mass, the lower the temperature


7. According to paragraph 5, what is a major reason that Jovian planets have much thicker atmospheres than terrestrial planets do?
○ Jovian planets have lower surface gravities
○ Jovian planets have lower temperatures
○ Jovian planets have lower escape velocities
○Jovian planets’ gas molecules have higher average speeds


8. Paragraph 5 supports which of the following statements about the ability of planets to retain gases?
○More-massive planets are less able to retain gases than less-massive ones.
○Planets are more likely to retain heavy gases than light gases.
○Jovian planets are unlikely to retain the lightest gases.
○Only terrestrial planets have been able to retain carbon dioxide.


9. In calling the cloud of gas and dust from which the Sun and all the planets are thought to have condensed "primordial,' the author means that the cloud was
○immense in size
○composed of similar particles
○present at the very beginning of our solar system's formation
○created from a great variety of different materials


10. The word eventually in the passage is closest in meaning to
○over time
○long ago
○simply
○certainly


11. According to paragraph 6, what is a possible explanation for the lack of light gases and ices on terrestrial planets?
○The location of terrestrial planets caused them to lose some of the materials they once contained.
○Terrestrial planets were formed much later than Jovian planets.
○The composition of terrestrial planets was different from that of Jupiter.
○Terrestrial planets were formed out of different material than the Sun was.


12. Look at the four squares [■] that indicate where the following sentence could be added to the passage.
This explains their relatively low densities.
Where would the sentence best fit?


13. Directions: From the seven answer choices below, select the two phrases that correctly characterize the terrestrial planets and the three phrases that correctly characterize the Jovian planets. Drag each phrase you select into the appropriate column of the table. Two of the phrases will NOT be used. This question is worth 3 points.


