1. Which of the following can be inferred about bird migration from paragraph 1?
○ Birds will take the most direct migratory route to their new habitat.
○ The purpose of migration is to join with larger groups of birds.
○ Bird migration generally involves moving back and forth between north and south.
○ The destination of birds' migration can change from year to year.


2. The word perplexed in the passage is closest in meaning to
○ defeated
○ interested
○ puzzled
○ occupied


3. Which of the sentences below best expresses the essential information in the highlighted sentence in the passage? Incorrect choices change the meaning in important ways or leave out essential information.
○ Experiments revealed that caged starlings displayed a lack of directional sense and restless movements.
○ Experiments revealed that caged starlings were unable to orient themselves in the direction of their normal migratory route.
○ Experiments revealed that the restless movement of caged starlings had no clear direction.
○ Experiments revealed that caged starlings' orientation was accurate unless the weather was overcast.


4. The word preposterous in the passage is closest in meaning to
○ unbelievable
○ inadequate
○ limited
○ creative


5. According to paragraph 3, why did Kramer use mirrors to change the apparent position of the Sun?
○ To test the effect of light on the birds' restlessness
○ To test whether birds were using the Sun to navigate
○ To simulate the shifting of light the birds would encounter along their regular migratory route
○ To cause the birds to migrate at a different time than they would in the wild


6. According to paragraph 3, when do caged starlings become restless?
○ When the weather is overcast
○ When they are unable to identify their normal migratory route
○ When their normal time for migration arrives
○ When mirrors are used to change the apparent position of the Sun


7. Which of the following can be inferred from paragraph 4 about Kramer s reason for filling one food box and leaving the rest empty?
○ He believed the birds would eat food from only one box.
○ He wanted to see whether the Sun alone controlled the birds' ability to navigate toward the box with food.
○ He thought that if all the boxes contained food, this would distract the birds from following their migratory route.
○ He needed to test whether the birds preferred having the food at any particular point of the compass.


8. According to paragraph 5, how did the birds fly when the real Sun was visible?
○ They kept the direction of their flight constant.
○ They changed the direction of their flight at a rate of 15 degrees per hour.
○ They kept flying toward the Sun.
○ They flew in the same direction as the birds that were seeing the artificial Sun


9. The experiment described in paragraph 5 caused Kramer to conclude that birds possess a biological clock because
○ when birds navigate they are able to compensate for the changing position of the Sun in the sky
○ birds innate bearings keep them oriented in a direction that is within 15 degrees of the Suns direction
○ birds' migration is triggered by natural environmental cues, such as the position of the Sun
○ birds shift their direction at a rate of 15 degrees per hour whether the Sun is visible or not


10. According to paragraph 6, how did the birds navigate in the planetarium's nighttime environment?
○ By waiting for the dome to stop rotating
○ By their position on the planetarium floor
○ By orienting themselves to the stars in the artificial night sky
○ By navigating randomly until they found the correct orientation


11. Which of the following best describes the author's presentation of information in the passage?
○ A number of experiments are described to support the idea that birds use the Sun and the night sky to navigate.
○ The author uses logic to show that the biological clock in birds is inaccurate.
○ A structured argument about the importance of internal versus external cues for navigation is presented.
○ The opposing points of view about bird migration are clarified through the study of contrasting experiments.


12. The word accumulating in the passage is closest in meaning to
○ new
○ increasing
○ convincing
○ extensive


13. Look at the four squares [■] that indicate where the following sentence could be added to the passage.
He arranged the feed boxes at various positions on a compass.
Where would the sentence best fit?
○ Because caged birds become disoriented when the sky is overcast, Kramer hypothesized that birds orient themselves according to the Sun's position.
○ In one set of experiments. Kramer placed the box containing food at the same point of the compass each time he put food boxes in the birds’ environment.
○ Kramer demonstrated that an internal biological clock allows starlings to compensate for the Sun's movement.
○ After several studies. Kramer surmised that an internal biological clock allows some species of birds to navigate at night
○ The role of environmental cues in birds' navigation is clear, for on overcast days, birds use objects besides the Sun to orient themselves.
○ Kramer showed that night-migrating birds use the sky to navigate by the stars.


