1. According to paragraph 1, all of the following were true of viewing films in Kinetoscope parlors EXCEPT:
○One individual at a time viewed a film.
○Customers could view one film after another.
○Prizefights were the most popular subjects for films.
○Each film was short.


2. The author discusses phonograph parlors in paragraph 2 in order to
○Explain Edison's financial success
○Describe the model used to design Kinetoscope parlors
○Contrast their popularity to that of Kinetoscope parlors
○Illustrate how much more technologically advanced Kinetoscope parlors were


3. Which of the sentences below best expresses the essential information in the highlighted sentence from the passage?
○Edison was more interested in developing a variety of machines than in developing a technology based on only one.
○Edison refused to work on projection technology because he did not think exhibitors would replace their projectors with newer machines.
○Edison did not want to develop projection technology because it limited the number of machines he could sell.
○Edison would not develop projection technology unless exhibitors agreed to purchase more than one projector from him.


4. The word readily in the passage is closest in meaning to
○Frequently
○Easily
○Intelligently
○Obviously


5. The word assistance in the passage is closest in meaning to
○Criticism
○Leadership
○Help
○Approval


6. According to paragraph 4, how did the early movies differ from previous spectacles that were presented to large audiences?
○They were a more expensive form of entertainment.
○They were viewed by larger audiences.
○They were more educational.
○They did not require live entertainers.


7. According to paragraph 5, what role did early exhibitors play in the presentation of movies in theaters?
○They decided how to combine various components of the film program.
○They advised film-makers on appropriate movie content.
○They often took part in the live-action performances.
○They produced and prerecorded the material that was shown in the theaters.


8. Which of the following is mentioned in paragraph 6 as one of the ways the Mutoscope differed from the Kinetoscope?
○Sound and motion were simultaneously produced in the Mutoscope.
○More than one person could view the images at the same time with the Mutoscope.
○The Mutoscope was a less sophisticated earlier prototype of the Kinetoscope.
○A different type of material was used to produce the images used in the Mutocope.


9. The word it in the passage refers to
○The advent of projection
○The viewer's relationship with the image
○A similar machine
○Celluloid


10. According to paragraph 6, the images seen by viewers in the earlier peepshows, compared to the images projected on the screen, were relatively
○Small in size
○Inexpensive to create
○Unfocused
○Limited in subject matter


11. The word expanded in the passage is closest in meaning to
○Was enlarged
○Was improved
○Was varied
○Was rejected


12. Look at the four squares [■] that indicate where the following sentence can be added to the passage.
When this widespread use of projection technology began to hurt his Kinetoscope business, Edison acquired a projector developed by Armat and introduced it as “Edison’s latest marvel, the Vitascope."
Where would the sentence best fit?


13. Directions: An introductory sentence for a brief summary of the passage is provided below. Complete the summary by selecting the THREE answer choices that express the most important ideas in the passage. Some answer choices do not belong in the summary because they express ideas that are not presented in the passage or are minor ideas in the passage. This question is worth 2 points.
○Kinetoscope parlors for viewing films were modeled on phonograph parlors.
○Thomas Edison's design of the Kinetoscope inspired the development of large screen projection.
○Early cinema allowed individuals to use special machines to view films privately.
○Slide-and-lantern shows had been presented to audiences of hundreds of spectators.
○The development of projection technology made it possible to project images on a large screen.
○Once film images could be projected, the cinema became form of mass consumption.


