1. The word “dramatic” in the passage is closest in meaning to
○Gradual
○Complex
○Visible
○Striking


2. Where is the lower timberline mentioned in paragraph 1 likely to be found?
○In an area that has little water
○In an area that has little sunlight
○Above a transition area
○On a mountain that has on upper timberline.


3. Which of the following can be inferred from paragraph 1 about both the upper and lower timberlines?
○Both are treeless zones
○Both mark forest boundaries.
○Both are surrounded by desert areas.
○Both suffer from a lack of moisture.


4. Paragraph 2 supports which of the following statements about deciduous trees?
○They cannot grow in cold climates.
○They do not exist at the upper timberline.
○They are less likely than evergreens to survive at the upper timberline.
○They do not require as much moisture as evergreens do.


5. The word attain in the passage is closest in meaning to
○require
○resist
○achieve
○endure


6. The word they in the passage refers to
○valleys
○trees
○heights
○ridges


7. The word prone in the passage is closest in meaning to
○adapted
○likely
○difficult
○resistant


8. According to paragraph 3, which of the following is true of trees in the middle and upper latitudes?
○Tree growth is negatively affected by the snow cover in valleys.
○Tree growth is greater in valleys than on ridges.
○Tree growth on ridges is not affected by high-velocity winds.
○Tree growth lasts longer in those latitudes than it does in the tropics.


9. Which of the sentences below best express the essential information in the highlighted sentence in the passage? In correct choices change the meaning in important ways or leave out essential information.
○Because of their deformed shapes at high altitudes, trees are not likely to be seriously harmed by the strong winds typical of those altitudes.
○As altitude increases, the velocity of winds increase, leading to a serious decrease in the number of trees found at high altitudes.
○The deformed shapes of trees at high altitudes show that wind velocity, which increase with altitude, can cause serious hardship for trees.
○Increased wind velocity at high altitudes deforms the shapes of trees, and this may cause serious stress for trees.


10. In paragraph 4, what is the author’s main purpose in the discussion of the dramatic cessation of tree growth at the upper timberline?
○To argue that none of several environment factors that are believed to contribute to that phenomenon do in fact play a role in causing it.
○To argue in support of one particular explanation of that phenomenon against several competing explanations.
○To explain why the primary environmental factor responsible for that phenomenon has not yet been identified.
○To present several environmental factors that may contribute to a satisfactory explanation of that phenomenon.


11. According to paragraph 6, all of the following statements are true of plants in the alpine zone EXCEPT:
○Because they are low, they are less exposed to strong winds.
○Because they are low, the winter snow cover gives them more protection from the extreme cold.
○In the equatorial mountains, they tend to be lower than in mountains elsewhere.
○Their low growth form keeps them closer to the ground, where there is more heat than further up.


12. Look at the four squares [█] that indicate where the following sentence could be added to the passage.
This explains how, for example, alpine cushion plants have been found growing at an altitude of 6,180 meters.
Where would the sentence best fit? Click on a square to add the sentence to the passage.


13. Directions: An introductory sentence for a brief summary of the passage is provided below. Complete the summary by selecting the THREE answer choices that express the most important ideas in the passage. Some sentences do not belong in the summary because they express ideas that are not presented in the passage or are minor ideas in the passage. This question is worth 2 points.
At the timberline, whether upper or lower, there is a profound change in the growth of trees and other plants.
Answer choices
○Birch is one of the few species of tree that can survive in the extreme environments of the upper timberline.
○There is no agreement among scientists as to exactly why plant growth is sharply different above and below the upper timberline.
○The temperature at the upper timberline is probably more important in preventing tree growth than factors such as the amount of snowfall or the force of winds.
○The geographical location of an upper timberline has an impact on both the types of trees found there and their physical characteristics.
○High levels of ultraviolet light most likely play a greater role in determining tree growth at the upper timberline than do grazing animals such as the ibex.
○Despite being adjacent to the timberline, the alpine tundra is an area where certain kinds of low trees can endure high winds and very low temperatures.


