1. According to paragraph 1, why has trade been so important throughout the history of the Middle East
○The rare and valuable metals and stones found in Middle Eastern deserts have always been in high demand in surrounding areas.
○Growing conditions throughout the Middle East are generally poor, forcing Middle Eastern people to depend on imported grain.
○Many useful and decorative raw materials cannot be found naturally in the Middle East but are available from neighboring regions.
○Frequent travel, due to limited water supplies in the Middle East, created many opportunities for trade with neighboring societies.


2. The word repudiate in the passage is closest in meaning to
○Respect
○Reject
○review ​
○revise


3. According to paragraph 2, how did Middle Eastern shop owners treat their workers?
○Workers were ranked according to their skill level, with the most-experienced artisans becoming partial owners of the shop.
○Shop owners treated different workers differently depending on how much the workers had in common with their masters.
○Workers were bound to their masters by unbreakable contracts that strictly defined the terms of their partnership.
○The shop owner worked alongside the workers and often considered them partner and members of the family.


4. The author includes the information that surplus was not a result of domestic craft production but resulted primarily from international trading in order to
○support the claim that the mode of production made possible by the craft guilds w very good for trade
○contrast the economic base of the city government with that of the tribal confederacies
○provide a reason why the government allowed the guilds to be self-controlled
○suggest that the government was missing out on a valuable opportunity to tax the guilds


5. According to paragraph 3, all of the following are true of the Middle Eastern craft guilds EXCEPT:
○The guilds were created to support workers and to uphold principles of high-quay craft production.
○Each guild was very large and included members from a broad geographic area.
○The leaders of the guilds were chosen by popular vote.
○All guild members were treated as equals.


6. The word consensus in the passage is closest in meaning to
○Authority
○Responsibility
○Custom
○Agreement


7. According to paragraph 4, which of the following was NOT necessary for success in the mercantile economy?
○Good business sense
○Reliable associates
○Family wealth
○Constant effort


8. Which of the sentences below best expresses the essential information in the highlighted sentence the passage? Incorrect choices change the meaning in important ways or leave out essential information.
○Tribes people were comfortable forming personal relationships with merchants, who, like them, were bound by their promises to one another.
○Because trade was not formally regulated, merchants were careful about whom they trusted and often conducted business with people they knew personally.
○While trade among merchants relied somewhat on regulation, among tribes people trade was based on personal relationships and careful character evaluation.
○Because tribes people were bound only by their promises to one another, personal relationships were formed only after careful weighing of character.


9. The word ethic in the passage is closest in meaning to
○set of moral principles
○division of labor
○economic system
○test of character


10. According to paragraph 4, what choice did Middle Eastern merchants and artisans have that many other people have not had?
○If they were unhappy in the mercantile environment, they could draw on personal connections to find a different kind of work.
○They were allowed to assert their opinions without having to listen to aristocratic professions of moral superiority.
○Following the example of the pastoralists, they could demand, and receive, better working conditions.
○If they didn't like their environment, they could move somewhere else.


11. The word intrinsically in the passage is closest in meaning to
○fundamentally
○surprisingly
○consequently
○particularly
○To provide evidence that European seafarers took every opportunity to bypass Middle Eastern merchants
○To present an instance in which Middle Eastern states lost money and power because of their reliance on long-distance trade
○To argue this new route became necessary when European seafarers wanted to avoid Middle Eastern states whose central power had begun to erode
○To explain how da Gama helped European traders avoid the dangerous predators prowling the areas surrounding Middle Eastern cities


13. Look at the four squares [■] that indicate where the following sentence could be added to the passage.
For one thing, it created a demand for finished goods to be sold both locally and abroad.
Where would the sentence best fit?


14. Directions: An introductory sentence for a brief summary of the passage is provided below. Complete the summary by selecting the THREE answer choices that express the most important ideas in the passage. Some sentences do not belong in the summary because they express ideas that are not presented in the passage or are minor ideas in the passage. This question is worth 2 points.


