2. According to paragraph 2, which of the following is true of Chinese ceramics?
○ The function of ceramics remained the same from dynasty to dynasty.
○ The use of ceramics as trade objects is better documented than the use of ceramics as ritual objects.
○ There was little variation in quality for any type of ceramics over time.
○ Some religious sculptures were made using the earthenware type of ceramics.


3. The word evolve in the passage is closest in meaning to
○ divided
○ extended
○ developed
○ vanished


4. Which of the sentences below best expresses the essential information in the highlighted sentence in the passage? Incorrect choices change the meaning in important ways or leave out essential information.
○ While stonewares and porcelains are found throughout most historical periods, religious sculpture is limited to the ancient period.
○ Religious sculpture was created in most periods, but its history is less clear than that of stonewares or
○ While stonewares and porcelains changed throughout history, religious sculpture remained uniform in form and use.
○ The historical development of religious sculpture is relatively unclear because religious sculptures sometimes resemble earthenware architectural ornaments.


5. Paragraph 3 supports all of the following concerning the history of the ceramic industry in China EXCEPT:
○ The earliest high-fired ceramics were of poor quality.
○ Ceramics produced during the Tang and Ming dynasties sometimes incorporated multiple colors.
○ Earthenware ceramics were produced in China before stonewares were.
○ The Song dynasty period was notable for the production of high quality porcelain ceramics.


6. The word instigate in the passage is closest in meaning to
○ improved
○ investigated
○ narrowed
○ caused


7. According to paragraph 4. one consequence of the trade of Chinese ceramics was
○ The transfer of a distinctive blue pigment from China to the Middle East
○ An immediate change from earthenware production to porcelain production in European countries
○ Chinese production of wares made for the European market
○ A decreased number of porcelain vessels available on the European market


8. The word whereas in the passage is closest in meaning to
○ while
○ previously
○ surprisingly
○ because


9. In paragraph 5, the author compares the designs on Chinese pots to those on Greek pots in order to
○ emphasize that while Chinese pots were decorative. Greek pots were functional
○ argue that the designs on Chinese pots had specific meanings and were not just decorative
○ argue that twentieth-century scholars are better able to understand these designs than were ancient scholars
○ explain how scholars have identified the meaning of specific images on Chinese pots


10. Which of the following is mentioned in paragraph 5 as being symbolically represented on Chinese ceramics?
○ Chinese rulers
○ love of homeland
○ loyally to friends
○ success in trade


11. Paragraph 5 suggests which of the following about the decorations on Chinese pottery?
○ They had more importance for aristocrats than for ordinary citizens.
○ Their significance may have remained clear had the Chinese not come under foreign influence.
○ They contain some of the same images that appear on Greek pots
○ Their significance is now as clear to twentieth century observers as it was to the early Chinese.


12. The word these in the passage refers to
○ religious ceremonies
○ descriptions
○ types of ware
○ pots


13. Look at the four squares [■]that indicate where the following sentence could be added to the passage.
Foreign trade was also responsible for certain innovations in coloring.
Where could the sentence best fit?
○ The Chinese produced earthenware, stoneware, and porcelain pottery and they used their ceramics for a variety of utilitarian, architectural, and ceremonial purposes.
○ The shape and decoration of ceramics produced for religious use in China were influenced by Chinese ceramics produced for export.
○ As a result of trade relations. Chinese ceramic production changed and Chinese influenced the ceramics production of other countries
○ Chinese burial ceramics have the longest and most varied history of production and were frequently decorated with written texts that help scholars date them.
○ Before China had contact with the West, the meaning of various designs used to decorate Chinese ceramics was well understood.
○ Ceramics made in imperial factories were used in both religious and non-religious contexts


