1. The word impetus in the passage is closest in meaning to
○Return
○Opportunity
○Stimulus
○Obstacle


2. According to paragraph 1 why was it necessary to find a new way for European merchants to reach the East?
○People in China were finally ready to trade with Europeans
○The European economy was failing because there was no trade with the East
○Traditional ways of trading with the East had becomevery costly
○Commercial routes over land had become blocked because of political events


3. According to paragraph 2. what was the main difficulty Europeans had to overcome in order to develop a new way of trading with the East?
○Europeans were unwilling to invest in large-scale commercial ventures.
○Europeans lacked the means for navigating long distances across oceans.
○Europeans were unwilling to experiment with new business techniques.
○Europeans lacked knowledge about the commercial methods of other peoples.


4. Which of the sentences below best expresses the essential information in the highlighted sentence in the passage? Incorrect choices change the meaning in important ways or leave out essential information.
○The high cost to investors of developing trade by sea between East and West indicates the great size of the profits that such trade could produce.
○The profits that could be created by sea trade between East and West were immense compared with the investment required to develop such trade.
○The increase in commercial activity by using sea routes reflects the importance trade between East and West had for investors seeking great profits.
○Because people made large investments in sea commerce between East and West. They expected to make immense profits.


5. The word dramatically in the passage is closest in meaning to
○Artificially
○Greatly
○Immediately
○Regularly


6. It can be inferred from paragraph 2 that spices from Asia were desirable in Europe in the Middle Ages because they
○were easily transported in large quantities
○could not be produced in European countries
○could be traded for products such as perfumes and medicines
○were expected to increase in value over time


7. According to paragraph 3, all of the following statements comparing the caravel with the galley are true EXCEPT:
○The caravel had fewer masts than the galley.
○The caravel had a wider hull than the galley.
○The caravel could carry more cargo than the galley.
○The caravel was more stable in rough water than the galley.


8. According to paragraph 3, what did the lateen sail contribute to the caravel as a sailing ship?
○It provided stability for the front part of the ship.
○It made it possible for the hull to be wider and deeper.
○It added considerably to the speed of the wind-driven ship.
○It improved the capacity of the ship to be guided.


9. Why does the author include the information that Western Europeans had developed and put into use the magnetic compass
○To provide an example of an instrument that was developed after caravels had begun traveling across oceans
○To provide an example of an improvement that resulted directly from the invention of the astrolabe
○To identify one of the technological advances that made sea trade with the East possible
○To explain how the problem of determining longitude was solved


10. The word refined in the passage is closest in meaning to
○Completed
○Improved
○Drawn
○Checked


11. The word norms in the passage is closest in meaning to
○purposes
○skills
○activities
○rules


12. According to paragraph 4, which of the following is true of the maritime code developed in Europe in the fourteenth century?
○It mapped out lanes in the seas for trading ships to follow.
○It defined the ways in which people should behave at sea.
○It replaced an earlier code that could not be adapted to the sea trade with the East.
○It gave instructions on how to navigate a ship.


13. Look at the four squares [■] that indicate where the following sentence could be added to the passage.
They were highly valued for a couple of reasons.
Where would the sentence best fit?


14. Directions: An introductory sentence for a brief summary of the passage is provided below. Complete the summary by selecting the THREE answer choices that express the most important ideas in the passage. Some sentences do not belong in the summary because they express ideas that are not presented in the passage or are minor ideas in the passage. This question is worth 2 points.
Because land routes to Asia had been cut off in the fourteenth century. Europeans had to find a new way to trade with Asia.
Answer Choices
1. Reports by travelers indicated that people in Asia were interested in renewing trade with Europeans.
2. For trade in Asian goods such as spices to be profitable.
3. European galleys were able to bring Asian goods across the these items needed to be transported in large quantities by​Indian Ocean and around the African coastline.
4. Wind-driven caravels were developed to carry cargo across the oceans.
5. The development of maps. navigational instruments. and a maritime code of conduct provided crucial elements for long-distance navigation.
6. Europeans wanted to import spices from Asia in order to improve the taste of food and to make perfumes and medicines.


