1. The word massive in the passage is closest in meaning to
○ancient
○carefully
○very large
○carefully protected


2. In paragraph 1, each of the following is mentioned as a feature of the city of Teotihuacán between A.D. 150 and 700 EXCEPT
○regularly arranged streets
○several administrative centers spread across the city
○many manufacturing workshops
○apartment complexes


3. The word pinpoint in the passage is closest in meaning to
○identify precisely
○make an argument for
○describe
○understand


4. The word ingenuity in the passage is closest in meaning to
○ambition
○sincerity
○faith
○cleverness


5. Which of the following is NOT mentioned in paragraph 2 as a main factor in the development of Teotihuacán?
○The presence of obsidian in the Teotihuacán Valley
○The potential for extensive irrigation of Teotihuacán Valley lands
○A long period of volcanic inactivity in the Teotihuacán Valley
○Teotihuacán’s location on a natural trade route


6. Which of the following can be inferred from paragraphs 2 and 3 about the Volcanic eruptions of the late first millennium B.C.?
○They were more frequent than historians once thought.
○They may have done more damage to Teotihuacán than to neighboring centers.
○They may have played a major role in the rise of Teotihuacán.
○They increased the need for extensive irrigation in the Teotihuacán Valley


7. What can be inferred from paragraph 3 about Cuicuilco prior to 200 B.C.?
○It was a fairly small city until that date.
○It was located outside the Valley of Mexico.
○It emerged rapidly as an economical and political center.
○Its economy relied heavily on agriculture.


8. The word predominant in the passage is closest in meaning to
○most aggressive
○most productive
○principal
○earliest


9. Which of the following allowed Teotihuacán to have “a competitive edge over its neighbors”?
○A well-exploited and readily available commodity
○The presence of a highly stable elite class
○Knowledge derived directly from the Olmecs about the art of tool making
○Scarce natural resources in nearby areas such as those located in what are now the Guatemalan and Mexican highlands


10. According to paragraph 4, what has recent research on obsidian tools found at Olmec sites shown?
○Obsidian’s value was understood only when Teotihuacán became an important city.
○The residents of Teotihuacán were sophisticated toolmakers.
○The residents of Teotihuacán traded obsidian with the Olmecs as early as 400 B.C.
○Some of the obsidian used by the Olmecs came from the area around Teotihuacán.
11. Select the TWO answer choices that are mentioned in paragraph 5 as being features of Teotihuacán that may have attracted immigrants to the city. To receive credit, you must select TWO answers.
○The prosperity of the elite
○Plenty of available housing
○Opportunities for well-paid agricultural employment
○The presence of one or more religious shrines


12. In paragraph 6, the author discusses the “The thriving obsidian operation” in order to
○explain why manufacturing was the main industry of Teotihuacán
○give an example of an industry that took very little time to develop in Teotihuacán
○Illustrate how several factors influenced each other to make Teotihuacán a powerful and wealthy city
○explain how a successful industry can be a source of wealth and a source of conflict at the same time


13. Look at the four squares [■] that indicate where the following sentence could be added to the passage.
In fact, artifacts and pottery from Teotihuacán have been discovered in sites as far away as the Mayan lowlands, the Guatemalan highlands, northern Mexico, and the Gulf Coast of Mexico.
Where would the sentence best fit?


14. Directions: An introductory sentence for a brief summary of the passage is provided below. Complete the summary by selecting the THREE answer choices that express the most important ideas in the passage. Some sentences do not belong in the summary because they express that are not presented in the passage or are minor ideas in the passage. This question is worth 2 points.
Teotihuacán was a highly developed city in Mesoamerica that reached its peak between about A.D. 150 and 700.
Answer choices
○The number and sophistication of the architectural, administrative, commercial, and religious features of Teotihuacan indicate the existence of centralized planning and control.
○Teotihuacán may have developed its own specific local religion as a result of the cultural advances made possible by the city’s great prosperity.
○As a result of its large number of religious shrines, by the first century A.D., Teotihuacan become the most influential.
○Several factors may account for Teotihuacán’s extraordinary development, including its location, rich natural resources, irrigation potential, intelligent elite, and the misfortune of rival communities.
○In many important areas, from the obsidian industry to religious tourism, Teotihuacán’s success and prosperity typified the classic positive feedback cycle.
○Although many immigrants settled in Teotihuacán between A.D.150 and 700, the increasing threat of coerced labor discouraged further settlement and limited Teotihuacán’s population growth.


