1. The word “diffused” in the passage is closest in meaning to
○emerged
○was understood
○spread
○developed


2. According to paragraph 1, why do researchers doubt that agriculture developed independently in Africa?
○African lakes and rivers already provided enough food for people to survive without agriculture.
○The earliest examples of cultivated plants discovered in Africa are native to Asia.
○Africa’s native plants are very difficult to domesticate.
○African communities were not large enough to support agriculture.


3. In paragraph 1, what does the author imply about changes in the African environment during this time period?
○The climate was becoming milder, allowing for a greater variety of crops to be grown.
○Although periods of drying forced people south, they returned once their food supply was secure.
○Population growth along rivers and lakes was dramatically decreasing the availability of fish.
○A region that had once supported many people was becoming a desert where few could survive


4. According to paragraph 2,camels were important because they
○were the first domesticated animal to be introduced to Africa
○allowed the people of the West African savannahs to carve out large empires
○helped African peoples defend themselves against Egyptian invaders
○made it cheaper and easier to cross the Sahara


5. According to paragraph 2, which of the following were subjects of rock paintings in the Sahara?
○Horses and chariots
○Sheep and goats
○Hyksos invaders from Egypt
○Camels and cattle


6. What function does paragraph 3 serve in the organization of the passage as a whole
○It contrasts the development of iron technology in West Asia and West Africa.
○It discusses a non-agricultural contribution to Africa from Asia.
○It introduces evidence that a knowledge of copper working reached Africa and Europe at the same time.
○It compares the rates at which iron technology developed in different parts of Africa.


7. The word “profound” in the passage is closest in meaning to
○fascinating
○far-reaching
○necessary
○temporary


8. The word “ritual” in the passage is closest in meaning to
○military
○physical
○ceremonial
○permanent


9. According to paragraph 4, all of the following were social effects of the new metal technology in Africa EXCEPT:
○Access to metal tools and weapons created greater social equality.
○Metal weapons increased the power of warriors.
○Iron tools helped increase the food supply.
○Technical knowledge gave religious power to its holders.


10. Which of the sentences below best expresses the essential information in the highlighted sentence in the passage? Incorrect choices change the meaning in important ways or leave out essential information.
○While American iron makers developed the latest furnaces, African iron makers continued using earlier techniques.
○Africans produced iron much earlier than Americans, inventing technologically sophisticated heating systems.
○Iron making developed earlier in Africa than in the Americas because of the ready availability of carbon and iron ore.
○Both Africa and the Americas developed the capacity for making iron early, but African metallurgy developed at a slower rate.


11. The word “fleeing” in the passage is closest in meaning to
○afraid of
○displaced by
○running away from
○responding to


12. Paragraph 6 mentions all of the following as possible causes of the “Bantu explosion” EXCEPT
○superior weapons
○better hunting skills
○peaceful migration
○increased population


13. Look at the four squares ■ that indicate where the following sentence could be added to the passage.
These people had a significant linguistic impact on the continent as well.
Where would the sentence best fit?


14. Direction: An introductory sentence for a brief summary of the passage is provided below. Complete the summary by selecting the THREE answer choices that express the most important ideas in the passage. Some sentences do not belong in the summary because they express ideas that are not presented in the passage or are minor ideas in the passage. This question is worth 2 points.
Agriculture and iron working probably spread to Africa from neighboring regions.
Answer choices
○Once Africans developed their own crops, they no longer borrowed from other regions.
○The harshness of the African climate meant that agriculture could not develop until after the introduction of iron tools.
○The use of livestock improved transportation and trade and allowed for new forms of political control.
○As the Sahara expanded, the camel gained in importance, eventually coming to have religious significance.
○The spread of iron working had far-reaching effects on social, economic, and political organization in Africa.
○Today's Bantu-speaking peoples are descended from a technologically advanced people who spread throughout Africa.


