1. The phrase assisted in in the passage is closest in meaning to
○ initiated
○ dominated
○ helped with
○ setup


2. It can be inferred from paragraph 1 that even when paint was sprayed by mouth to make a hand stencil
○ there was no way to tell which hand was stenciled
○ the stenciled hand was the weaker hand
○ the stenciled hand was the dominant hand
○ artists stenciled more images of the dominant hand than they did of the weak


3. The phrase depicted in the passage is closest in meaning to
○ identified
○ revealed
○ pictured
○ imagined


4. Which of the sentences below best expresses the essential information in the highlighted sentence in the passage? Incorrect choices change the meaning in important ways or leave out essential information.
○ Right-handed artists could more easily have avoided casting shadows on their work, because engravings in prehistoric caves were lit from the left.
○ The tips of engraving tools and brushes indicate that these instruments were used by right-handed artists whose work was lit from the left.
○ The best lighting for most engravings suggests that they were made by right-handed people trying to avoid the shadow of their hands interfering with their work.
○ Right-handed artists try to avoid having the brush they are using interfere with the light source.


5. All of the following are mentioned in paragraphs 1 and 2 as evidence of right-handedness in art and artists EXCEPT
○ the ideal source of lighting for most engravings
○ the fact that a left hand stenciled palm upward might look like a right hand
○ the prevalence of outlines of left hands
○ figures in prehistoric art holding objects with the right hand


6. According to paragraph 3, the La Chapelle-aux-Saints Neanderthal skeleton can be identified as right-handed because
○ other Neanderthal skeletons found nearby are also right-handed
○ the right arm bone is stronger than the left
○ it is similar to skeletons of La Ferrassie I and Neanderthal
○ the right side of the skeleton shows less evidence of fractures


7. Which of the following statements about fractures and cut marks can be inferred from paragraph 4?
○ Fractures and cut marks caused by right-handed soldiers tend to occur on the right side of the injured party's body.
○ The right arm sustains more injuries because, as the dominant arm, it is used more actively.
○ In most people, the left side of the body is more vulnerable to injury since it is not defended effectively by the dominant arm.
○ Fractures and cut marks on fossil humans probably occurred after death.


8. According to paragraph 5, what characteristic of a Neolithic spoon would imply that the spoon's owner was right-handed?
○ The direction of the fibers
○ Its long handle
○ The yew wood it is carved from
○ Wear on its left side


9. In paragraph 5, why does the author mention the Ice Age rope found in the French cave of Lascaux?
○ As an example of an item on which the marks of wear imply that it was used by a right-handed person
○ Because tressing is an activity that is easier for a right-handed person than for a left-handed person
○ Because the cave of Lascaux is the site where researchers have found several prehistoric tools made for right-handed people
○ As an example of an item whose construction shows that it was right handed made by a right-person


10. The word criteria in the passage is closest in meaning to
○ standards
○ findings
○ ideas
○ techniques


11. What was the purpose of Toth's tool making experiment described in paragraph 6?
○ To shape tools that could be used by either hand
○ To produce replicas of early tools for display in museums
○ To imitate the production of pebble tools from early sites
○ To determine which handmade the early tools


12. What is the author's primary purpose in paragraph 7?
○ To illustrate the importance of studying the brain
○ To demonstrate that human beings are the only mammal to desire fine control of movement
○ To contrast the functions of the two hemispheres of the brain
○ To demonstrate that right-hand preference has existed for a long time


13. Look at the four squares [■] that indicate where the following sentence could be added to the passage.
The stencils of hands found in these shelters and caves allow us to draw conclusions about which hand was dominant.
Where would the sentence best fit?
○Stencils of right-handed figures are characteristic of cave art in France. Spain, and Tasmania.
○Signs on the skeletal remains of prehistoric figures, including arm-bone size and injury marks, imply that these are the remains of right-handed people.
○Instruments such as spoons, ropes, and pebble tools show signs that indicate they were used or constructed by right-handed people.
○The amount of prehistoric art created by right-handed artists indicates that left-handed people were in the minority.
○Neanderthal skeletons often have longer finger bones in the right hand, which is evidence that the right hand was stronger.
○Nick Toth, a modem right-handed toolmaker. has shown that prehistoric tools were knapped to fit the right hand.


