1. The word rudimentary in the passage is closest in meaning to
○thorough
○strict
○basic
○occasional


2. According to paragraph 1 which of the following statements about William Smith is NOT true?
○Smith learned surveying by reading and by apprenticing for a local surveyor
○Smith’s family lived in a small English town and possessed little wealth．
○Smith learned about fossils from books he borrowed from his uncle．
○Smith eventually left his village to work on the excavation of an English canal.


3. Which of the following can be inferred from paragraph 2 about canal building?
○ Canals were built primarily in the south of England rather than in other regions．
○ Canal building decreased after the steam locomotive was invented．
○ Canal building made it difficult to study rock strata which often became damaged in the process．
○ Canal builders hired surveyors like Smith to examine exposed rock strata．
○It indicates the locations of England's major canals
○It became most valuable when the steam locomotive made rail travel possible
○The data for the map were collected during Smith’s work on canals
○It is no longer regarded as a geological masterpiece


5. The word meticulously in the passage is closest in meaning to
○carefully
○quickly
○frequently
○obviously


6. Which of the sentences below best expresses the essential information in the highlighted sentence in the passage? Incorrect choices change the meaning in important ways or leave out essential information．
○The discovery of regional differences in the sequences of rocks led geologists to believe that rock types could someday become reliable time markers．
○Careful analysis of strata revealed that rocks cannot establish geological time because the pattern of rock layers varies from place to place．
○Smith's catalogs of rock strata indicated that the sequences of rocks are different from place to place and from region to region．
○Because people did not catalog regional differences in sequences of rocks. It was believed that rocks could never be reliable time markers


7. Why does the author use the phrase “Quartz is quartz"?
○To describe how the differences between Pleistocene and Cambrian quartz reveal information about dating rocks
○To point out that the chemical composition of quartz makes it more difficult to date than other rocks
○To provide an example of how regional differences in rock sequences can make a particular rock difficult to date
○To explain that rocks are difficult to use for dating because their chemical compositions always remain the same over time


9. The word endured in the passage is closest in meaning to
○vanished
○developed
○varied
○survived


10. The word “virtually” in the passage is closest in meaning to
○possibly
○absolutely
○surprisingly
○nearly


11. Select the TWO answer choices that are true statements based upon the discussion of the principle of faunal succession in paragraph 5. To receive credit, you must select TWO answers.
○It was a principle that applied to fauna but not to flora．
○It was discovered independently by two different geologists，
○It describes how fossils are distributed in rock strata
○It explains why plants and animals undergo transformations through time．


12. In mentioning "trilobite”, the author is making which of the following points?
○Fossils cannot be found in more than one rock stratum．
○Faunal succession can help put rock layers in relative temporal sequence．
○Faunal succession cannot be applied to different strata composed of the same kind of rock．
○The presence of trilobite fossils makes it difficult to date a rock．


13.Look at the four squares [█]that indicate where the following sentence could be added to the passage
The findings of these geologists inspired others to examine the rock and fossil records in different parts of the world．
Where would the sentence best fit?


14. William Smith’s contributions to geology have increased our knowledge of the Each’s history．
○Smith found success easily in his profession because he came from a family of geologists and surveyors. ​
○Smith’s work on canals allowed him to collect fossils and study rock layers all over England.
○Smith found that fossils are much more reliable indicators of geological time than rock strata are．
○Smith was named “the father of English geology” for his maps rather than for his other contributions to the field.
○Smith and Cuvier discovered that fossil patterns are easier to observe in ancient rock strata than in younger rock strata.
○The discovery of the principle of faunal succession allowed geologists to establish the relative age of Earth’s rock layers.


