1.​According to paragraph 1, which of the following can be inferred about the diaphragm during sleep?
○During sleep the diaphragm requires increased movement of the rib cage.
○The diaphragm helps with breathing as movements of the rib cage decrease during sleep.
○The diaphragm requires a great amount of pressure to function properly.
○The diaphragm contributes to the effective functioning of the rib cage.


2.​According to paragraph 2, all of the following are true of the voluntary breathing system EXCEPT:
○It has its control center in the brain stem.
○It controls breathing for a number of activities during wakefulness.
○It is able to bypass the automatic system.
○It produces an irregular breathing pattern.


3.​The word exclusive in the passage is closest in meaning to
○consistent
○perfect
○partial
○sole


4.​According to paragraph 3, which of the following may occur just before NREM sleep begins?
○The automatic, metabolic system may increase its dependence on air exchanges.
○Breathing can stop for a short time as a person falls asleep.
○An increase in the oxygen level in the blood can occur as sleep becomes fully obtained.
○The level of carbon dioxide in the blood may drop suddenly.


5.​What is the author's purpose in stating that inhaling is like sucking air out of a balloon?
○To refute the argument that additional effort is necessary for breathing during sleep
○To argue that REM sleep is more important than NREM sleep
○To illustrate the difficulty of breathing during sleep
○To illustrate how blockage of narrow passages can be prevented during sleep


6.​All of the following are mentioned in paragraph 4 as being characteristic of breathing during sleep EXCEPT
○relaxation of the muscles involved in the respiratory system
○changes in resistance between the two sides of the nose
○easier airflow in the passages of the upper airway
○absence of certain complex muscle interactions


7.​According to paragraph 5, what happens during NREM sleep when inhaling is difficult?
○There is an immediate, automatic, adaptive increase in breathing effort.
○The sleeping person takes several inadequate breaths before the breathing effort is adjusted.
○The coughing reflex causes the breathing effort to adjust.
○The airways become cleared as the blood removes irritants.


8.​It can be inferred from paragraph 5 that a very mild irritation during sleep will likely cause the sleeping person to
○increase the breathing effort
○wake up and remove the source of irritation
○cough while still sleeping
○stop breathing temporarily while still sleeping


9.​The word considerable meaning to
○significant
○Steady
○Usual
○necessary


10. The word resume in the passage is closest in meaning to
○
○reduce
○stop
○Readjust
○restart


11.Which of the sentences below best expresses the essential information in the highlighted sentence in the passage? Incorrect choices change the meaning in important ways or leave out essential information.
○Because breathing is more shallow and irregular in REM than in NREM, less air is exchanged in REM.
○Breathing in NREM is less effective than breathing in REM because of irregular episodes of rapid breathing during NREM.
○Because breathing is more rapid in NREM sleep than in REM sleep, breathing often becomes shallow.
○Although REM has brief episodes of shallow breathing or lack of breathing, breathing is more rapid than in NREM.


12.​Look at the four squares [■] that indicate where the following sentence could be added to the passage.
To better understand breathing during sleep, it is, however, helpful to first understand how respiration works in general.
Where would the sentence best fit? Click on a square to add the sentence to the passage


13. Directions: From the seven statements below, select the statements that correctly characterize breathing during
wakefulness and those statements that correctly characterize breathing during sleep. Drag each answer choice you select
into the appropriate box of the table. Two of the answer choices will NOT be used. This question is worth 3 points.
Wakefulness Sleep

○The role of the rib cage increases and the role of the diaphragm decreases.
○Carbon dioxide in blood rises and oxygen drops.
○The coughing reflex is extremely complex.
○A great deal of effort is used for breathing.
○Upper airways are resistant to colds and allergies.
○There is a drop in the volume of air that is exchanged.
○Automatic and voluntary respiratory systems are both involved.


