1. The word interlocked in the passage is closest in meaning to
○intermediate
○linked
○frozen
○fully developed


2. According to paragraph 1, which of the following does NOT describe a stage in the development of firn?
○Hexagonal crystals become larger and interlock to form a thick layer.
○Snow crystals become compacted into grains.
○Granules recrystallize after melting, refreezing, and further compaction.
○Grains become denser owing to reduced air space around them.


3. The word match in the passage is closest in meaning to
○measure
○enlarge
○approximate
○equal


4. The word transform in the passage is closest in meaning to
○break
○push
○change
○extend


5. According to paragraph 2, surplus snow affects a glacier in all the following ways EXCEPT:
○It provides the pressure needed to cause glacial ice to flow.
○It offsets losses of ice due to melting, evaporation, and calving.
○It brings about the formation of fern in the snow it buries.
○It results in temperate glaciers that are thicker than polar glaciers.


6. Paragraph 2 implies that which of the following conditions produces the fastest moving glaciers?
○A climate characteristic of the polar regions
○A thick layer of ice in a temperate climate F Long,
○Warm summers
○Snow, firm and ice that have been buried for several years


7. The word deceiving in the passage is closest in meaning to
○approximate
○exaggerated
○unusual
○misleading


8. Why does the author consider the hypothetical melting of the world's glaciers?
○To contrast the effects of this event with the opposite effects of a new ice age
○To emphasize how much water is frozen in glaciers
○To illustrate the disastrous effects of a warming trencl
○To support the claim that glaciers are part of Earth' s hydrologic cycle


9. The discussion in paragraph 3 answers all the following questions EXCEPT:
○Where is most of Earth's freshwater?
○What effect would a new ice age have on sea levels?
○What is the total amount of water in Earth's oceans?
○How much of Earth's water is in ice?


10. The word static in the passage is closest in meaning to
○unchanging
○usable
○thick
○harmless


11. Which of the sentences below best expresses the essential information in the highlighted sentence in the passage? Incorrect choices change the meaning in important ways or leave out essential information.
○As a glacier moves, it leaves behind rock formations that have been engulfed, pushed, and dragged by the glacier.
○Glaciers reshape the landscape by carving into rock and transporting the resulting debris to distant locations.
○Glaciers carve the hardest rock formations with great energy and slowly reshape them into debris.
○The tremendous energy of slowly moving glaciers transports and finally deposits rock debris into large rock formations.


12. According to paragraph 5, in what way is the present time unusual in the history of Earth?
○There are glaciers.
○More land is covered by glaciers than at anytime in the past.
○There is no ice age.
○No glaciers are found in Australia.


13. Look at the four squares [■] that indicate where the following sentence could be added to the passage.
Firn has the appearance of wet sugar, but it is almost as hard as ice.
Where would the sentence best fit?


14. Directions: An introductory sentence for a brief summary of the passage is provided below. Complete the summary by selecting the THREE answer choices that express the most important ideas in the passage. Some sentences do not belong in the summary because they express ideas that are not presented in the passage or are minor ideas in the passage. This question is worth 2 points.
Glaciers are part of Earth's hydrologic cycle.
Answer Choices
○Glaciers, which at present contain 80 percent of Earth's freshwater, form when accumulated snow is compressed and recrystallized into ice over a period of years.
○When there are glaciers on Earth, water is cycled through the glacier system but the cycle period may be hundreds of thousands of years during periods of ice ages.
○The glacial system is governed by precipitation and temperature in such a way that glaciers cannot form in temperate latitudes.
○When glacial ice reaches a depth of 30 meters, the weight of the ice causes ice crystals at the bottom to flow, and the resulting movement of the glacier carves the landscape.
○If global warming melted the world's glaciers, sea level would rise about 60 meters worldwide.
○Glaciers have had little effect on Earth's surface because only 2 percent of Earth's water is currently contained in glaciers, and there are fewer glaciers now than at most times in the past.


