1. According to paragraph 1, the theory that people first migrated to the Americans by way of an ice-free corridor was seriously called into question by
○paleoecologist Glen MacDonald's argument that the original migration occurred much later than had previously been believed
○the demonstration that certain previously accepted radiocarbon dates were incorrect
○evidence that the continental ice began its final retreat much later than had previously been believed
○research showing that the ice-free corridor was not as long lasting as had been widely assumed


2. The word persuasively in the passage is closest in meaning to
○aggressively
○inflexibly
○convincingly
○carefully


3. Paragraph 2 begins by presenting a theory and then goes on to
○discuss why the theory was rapidly accepted but then rejected
○present the evidence on which the theory was based
○cite evidence that now shows that the theory is incorrect
○explain why the theory was not initially considered plausible


4. The phrase prior to is closest in meaning to
○before
○immediately after
○during
○in spite of


5. Paragraph 2 supports the idea that, before the 1970s, the most archaeologists held which of the following views about the earliest people to reach the Americas?
○They could not have sailed directly from Beringia to Alaska and then southward because, it was thought, glacial ice covered the entire coastal region.
○They were not aware that the climate would continue to become milder
○They would have had no interest in migrating southward from Beringia until after the continental glaciers had begun to melt
○They lacked the navigational skills and appropriate boats needed long-distance trips.


6. Which of the sentences below best expresses the essential information in the highlighted sentence in the passage? Incorrect choices change the meaning in important ways to leave out essential information.
○Because this region has been settled the longest, it also displays the greatest diversity in Native American languages.
○Fladmark's hypothesis states that the west coast of the Americas has been settled longer than any other region.
○The fact that the greatest diversity of Native American languages occurs along the west coast of the Americans lends strength to Fradmark's hypothesis
○According to Fladmark, Native American languages have survived the longest along the west coast of the Americas.


7. The author's purpose in paragraph 4 is to
○indicate that a number of recent geologic studies seem to provide support for the coastal hypothesis
○indicate that coastal and inland migrations may have happened simultaneously
○explain why humans may have reached America's northwest coast before animals and plants did
○show that the coastal hypothesis may explain how people first reached Alaska but it cannot explain how people reached areas like modern British Columbia and Washington State


8. The word Vast in the passage is closest in meaning to
○Frozen
○Various
○Isolated
○Huge


9. According to paragraph 5, the discovery of the remains of large land animals supports the coastal hypothesis by providing evidence that
○humans were changing their hunting techniques to adapt to coastal rather than inland environments
○animals had migrated from the inland to the coasts, an indication that a midcontinental ice-free corridor was actually implausible
○humans probably would have been able to find enough resources along the coastal corridor
○the continental shelf was still exposed by lower sea levels during the period when the southward migration of people began


10. The word inhospitable in the passage is closest in meaning to
○not familiar
○not suitable
○not dangerous
○not reachable


11. According to paragraph 5, the most recent geologic research provides support for a first colonization of America dating as far back as
○16,000 years ago
○14,000 years ago
○12,500 years ago
○10,000 years ago


12. The word impetus in the passage is closest in meaning to
○chance
○protection
○possibility
○incentive


13. Look at the four squares [■] that indicate where the following sentence could be added to the passage.
Moreover, other evidence suggests that even if an ice-free corridor did exist, it would have lacked the resources needed for human colonization.
Where could the sentence best fit?


14. Directions: An introductory sentence for a brief summary of the passage is provided below. Complete the summary by selecting the THREE answer choices that express the most important ideas in the passage. Some answer choices do not belong in the summary because they express ideas that are not presented in the passage or are minor ideas in the passage. This question is worth 2 points.
○Evidence that an ice-free corridor between two ice sheets developed when the continental ice first began to melt came primarily from radiocarbon dating.
○There is growing support for the theory that migration took place much earlier, by sea, following a coastal route along Alaska and down the northwest coast.
○Recent geologic evidence indicates that contrary to what had been believed, substantial areas along the coast were free of ice as early as 16,000 years ago.
○Research now indicates that the parts of the inner continental shelf that remained covered with ice were colonized by a variety of early human groups well adapted to living in extremely cold environments.
○There is evidence suggesting that areas along the coast may have contained enough food resources between 13,000 and 14,000 years ago to have made human colonization possible.
○Even though the northern part of the continent allowed for a more varied economy, several early human groups quickly moved south.


