1. According to paragraph 1, which of the following is true of the white-tailed deer of Puget Sound?
○It is native to lowlands and marshes.
○It is more closely related to the mule deer of eastern Washington than to other types of deer.
○It has replaced the black-tailed deer in the open prairie.
○It no longer lives in a particular type of habitat that it once occupied.


2.  It can be inferred from the discussion in paragraph 2 that winter conditions
○ Cause some deer to hibernate
○ Make food unavailable in the highlands for deer
○ Make it easier for deer to locate understory plants
○Prevent deer from migrating during the winter


3. The word "inhibits" in the passage is closest in meaning to
○ Consists of
○ Combines
○ Restricts
○ Establishes


4. The phrase "in the same breath" in the passage is closest in meaning to
○ Impatiently
○ Humorously
○ Continuously
○ Immediately


5. The author tells the story of the explorers Lewis and Clark in paragraph 3 in order to illustrate which of the following points?
○The number of deer within the Puget sound region has varied over time.
○ Most of the explorers who came to the Puget sound area were primarily interested than in the West.
○There was more game for hunting in the East of the United States than in the West.
○Individual explorers were not as successful at locating games as were the trading companies.


6. According to paragraph 3, how had Fort Vancouver changed by the time David Douglas returned in 1832?
○The fort had become the headquarters for the Hudson's Bay Company.
○Deer had begun populating the meadows around the fort.
○Deer populations near the fort had been destroyed.
○Crop yields in the area around the fort had decreased.


7. Why does the author ask readers to recall “the fate of the Columbian white-tailed deer” in the discussion of changes in the wilderness landscape?
○To provide support for the idea that habitat destruction would lead to population decline
○To compare how two species of deer caused biotic changes in the wilderness environment
○To provide an example of a species of deer that has successfully adapted to human settlement
○To argue that some deer species must be given a protected status


8. The phrase “indefinite period” in the passage is closest in meaning to period
○ Whose end has not been determined
○ That does not begin when expected
○ That lasts only briefly
○ Whose importance remains unknown


9. Which of the following statements about deer populations is supported by the information in paragraph 4?
○Deer populations reached their highest point during the 1940s and then began to decline.
○The activities of settlers contributed in unexpected ways to the growth of some deer populations in later times.
○The cleaning of wilderness land for construction caused biotic changes from which the black-tailed deer population has never recovered.
○Since the 1940s the winter populations of deer have fluctuated more than the summer populations have.


10. The word “rebound” in the passage is closest in meaning to
○ Decline
○ Recovery
○ Exchange
○ Movement


11. Which of the sentences below best expresses the essential information in the highlighted sentence in the passage? Incorrect choices change the meaning in important ways or leave out essential information.
○Arthur Einarsen’s longtime family with the Pacific Northwest helped him discover areas where deer had an increase in suitable browse.
○Arthur Einarsen found that deforested feeding grounds provided deer with more and better food.
○Biologist like Einarsen believe it is important to find additional open areas with suitable browse for deer to inhabit.
○According to Einarsen, huckleberry and vine maple are examples of vegetation that may someday improve the nutrition of deer in the open areas of the Pacific Northwest.


12. Which of the following is NOT mentioned in paragraph 5 as a factor that has increased deer populations?
○A reduction in the number of predators
○Restrictions on hunting
○The effects of logging and fire
○Laws that protected feeding grounds of deer


13. Look at the four squares [█] that indicate where the following sentence could be added to the passage.
There food is available and accessible throughout the winter.
Where would the sentence best fit?


14. Directions: An introductory sentence for a brief summary of the passage is provided below. Complete the summary by selecting the THREE answer that express the most important ideas in the passage. Some sentences do not belong in the summary because they express ideas that not presented in the passage or are minor ideas in the passage. This question is worth 2 points.
Deer in the Puget Sound area eat a wide variety of foods and migrate seasonally food
Answer Choices
○ The balance of deer species in the Puget Sound region has changed over time, with the Columbian white-tailed deer now outnumbering other types of deer.
○ Deer populations naturally fluctuate, but early settlers in the Puget Sound environment caused an overall decline in the deer populations of the areas at that time.
○ In the long term, black-tailed deer in the Puget Sound area have benefitted from human activities through the elimination of their natural predators, and more and better food in deforested areas.
○ Because Puget Sound deer migrate, it was and still remains difficult to determine accurately how many deers are living at any one time the western United States.
○ Although it was believed that human settlement of American West would cause the total number of deer to decrease permanently, the opposite has occurred for certain types of deer.
○ Wildlife biologists have long been concerned that the loss of forests may create nutritional deficiencies for deer.


