1. According to paragraph 2, which of the following is a criticism of Clements’ view of succession?
O The principles of succession are more lawlike than Clements thought they are.
O More evidence is needed to establish Clements’ predictions about succession.
O The details of succession are affected by random processes.
O Many of the factors that determine which plants will grow in an environment, such as the nature of the soil and the exposure to sun, do not change at all.


2. The word “substantiated” in the passage is closest in meaning to
O Confirmed
O Noticed
O Defined
O Publicized


3. The word “trend” in the passage is closest in meaning to
O Probability
O Picture
O Lawlike regularity
O Tendency


4. The word “likewise” in the passage is closest in meaning to
O Sometimes
O Similarly
O Apparently
O Consequently


5. The word “legitimately” in the passage is closest in meaning to
O Commonly
O Broadly
O Properly
O Officially


6. According to paragraph 4, why do many authors prefer the term “association” to “community” when describing a climax plant formation?
O Because the term “association” does not suggest the presence of a tight network involving interactive communication.
O Because the term “association” indicates that the grouping is not necessarily beneficial to all members
O Because the term “community” indicates continuing dynamic development that a climax formation does not have
O Because the term “community” suggests an organization that has been designed for a specific purpose


7. In paragraph 5, the author challenges the idea of a “biome” by noting that
O There are usually no very strong connections among the plants and animals living in a place
O Plants and animals respond in the same way to the same circumstances
O Particular combinations of flora and fauna do not generally come about purely by chance
O Some animals are dependent on specific kinds of plants for food


8. Why doest the author make the statement, “Indeed, there are vast areas of spruce forest without moose” ?
O To highlight a fact whose significance the ecologist Herbert Gleason had missed
O To propose the idea that a spruce forest is by itself a superorganism
O To emphasize that moose are not limited to a single kind of environment
O To critize the idea of a spruce-moose biome


9. The word “initiated” in the passage is closest in meaning to
O Approved
O Identified
O Started
O Foreseen


10. According to paragraph 5, Gleason’s opposition to the Clementsian views of plant ecology was based on the claim that plant species grow in places where
O They can enter into mutually beneficial relationships with other species
O Conditions suit them, regardless of whether particular other species are present
O Habitats are available for a wide variety of plant and animal species
O Their requirements are met, and those of most other species are not


11. Which of the sentences below best expresses the essential information in the highlighted sentence in the passage? Incorrect choices change the meaning in important ways or leave out essential information.
O Unlike the terms “climax”, “biome”, and “superorganism”, which refer to the particular association of plants and animals at a given location, the term “ecosystem” refers specifically to the physical factors within an environemnt.
O The terms “climax”, “biome”, “superorganism”, and “ecosystem” all refer to the system of plants and animals in an associated environment, but some are more controversial than others.
O When the older terms of ecology became too technical, they were replaced by the more popular and more widely used term “ecosystem”.
O The term “ecosystem” gradually replaced discredited terms for the combination of a physical environment and the plants and animals living together in it.


12. According to paragraph 6, what did ecologists mainly study when the ecosystem concept was the dominant paradigm?
O The physical factors present in different environments
O The typical activities of animals and the effect of those activities on plants
O The rates at which ecosystems changed from one kind to another
O The flow of energy and matter through ecosystems


13. Look at the four squares 【】 that indicate where the following sentence could be added to the passage.
They may be more interested in researching, for example, the adaptations that some aquatic animals undergo to survive in dry desert environments.
Where would the sentence best fit ?


14. Directions: An introductory sentence for a brief summary of the passage is provied below. Complete the summary by selecting the THREE answer choices that express the most important ideas in the passage. Some sentences do not belong in the summary because they express ideas that are not presented in the passage or are minor ideas in the passage. This question is worth 2 points.
To review passage. Click View Text.
The study of the combination of plant species that inhabit a particular locality became a scientific discipline toward the end of the nineteenth century.



Answer Choices
O Areas that are recovering from serious disturbances like volcanic eruptions and heavy floods provide special opportunities to observe the development of plant communities.
O Whether a given species will be found in a given ecosystem strongly depends on what other species it would interact with in that ecosystem.
O Computer-aided studies of entire system of associated organisms together with their environment provide a solid basis for current studies of specific ecological problems.
O According to the earliest theories of ecology, the development of plant communities proceeds in lawlike fashion and results in stable climax communities.
O The idea of associations of plants and animals that function as “superorganisms” was later rejected by biologists who saw no strong evidence in support of that idea.
O The once popular idea of communities as integrated ecosystems has been largely rejected by modern ecologists, who are more interested in problems involving behavior and adaptations.


