1. The word “accumulations” in the passage is closest in meaning to
O Signs
O Pieces
O Types
O Deposits


2. The word “heterogeneous” in the passage is closest in meaning to
O Remaining
O Varied
O Familiar
O Layered


3. According to paragraph 1, what persuaded Louis Agassiz that glaciation in the past had been widespread?
O Geologic differences between mountain valleys and flat plains
O The presence of similar glacial material in many different regions
O Geologic research on mountain glaciers in the Alps
O Evidence of regional differences in the drift caused by glacial erosion


4. The word “enjoy” in the passage is closest in meaning to
O Experience
O Resemble
O Expect
O Dominate


5. It can be inferred from paragraph 2 that Agassiz and other geologists of his time were not able to determine
O Which geographic regions had been covered with ice sheets in the last ice age
O The exact dates at which drifts had been deposited during the last ice age
O The exact composition of the drifts laid during the last ice age
O How far south along the east coast of the United States the ice had advanced during the last ice age


6. According to paragraph 3, what did geologists conclude as a result of finding well-developed soils containing warm-climate plant fossils between layers of glacial drift?
O There had been only one warm period before the Pleistocene epoch.
O There had been multiple periods of mild weather between ice ages
O Several glacial periods occurred after the Pleistocene epoch.
O Some earlier epochs were warmer thant the Pleistocene.


7. According to paragraph 3 and 4, scientists modified their theory about the exact number of glaciations because of evidence obtained from
O Ocean sediments
O Interglacial soils
O Glacial deposits
O Air samples


8. The word “reveal” in the passage is closest in meaning to
O Result from
O Vary with
O Show
O Preserve


9. According to paragraph 4, scientists use foraminifera shells to learn about Pleistocene ocean conditions by
O Measuring the amount of calcium carbonate present in the shells
O Determining the proportion of shell in each layer of sediment
O Comparing shells deposited during the Pleistocene with those buried earlier
O Calculating the relative quantity of two oxygen isotopes in the calcite


10. In can be inferred from paragraph 5 that foraminifera fossil shells containing calcite with high percentages of oxygen-16 were deposited at times when
O Polar ice extended as far as equatorial regions of land and sea
O Extensive glaciation was not occurring
O There were no great increases in ocean temperature
O There was heavy snowfall on continental glaciers


11. In paragraph 5, why does the author include the information that the “oxygen isotope ratio of the ocean changes as a great deal of water is withdrawn from it by evaporation and is precipitated as snow to form glacial ice” ?
O To explain how scientists were able to calculate how frequently the continental ice sheets expanded and contracted
O To explain how scientists have determined that there was no great change in ocean temperatures at the equator during past glaciations
O To provide evidence that oxygen-16 has a greater tendency to evaporate than does oxygen-18
O To suggest that equatorial marine organisms absorb more heavy isotopes than do marine organisms


12. According to the passage, when did scientists begin to realize that more than one ice age had occurred ?
O In the mid nineteenth century
O In the late nineteenth century
O In the early twentieth century
O In the late twentieth century


13. Look at the four squares 【】that indicate where the following sentence could be added to the passage.
In his view, there could be no other explanation for the composition of such drift.
Where would the sentence best fit ? 【】


14. Directions: An introductory sentence for a brief summary of the passage is provided below. Complete the summary by selecting the THREE answer choices that express the most important ideas in the passage. Some sentences do not belong in the summary because they express ideas that are not presented in the passage or are minor ideas in the passage. This question is worth 2 points.
Louis Agassiz was the first to note signs of glacial erosion and sedimentation in diverse regions of Europe and North America.



Answer Choices
O Evidence of a pattern of glacier-like deposits eventually convinced most geologists that an enormous continental glacier had extended into the temperate zone.
O Glacial research showed that many layers of ice were deposited, with each new period of glaciation extending farther south than the one before.
O Isotopic analysis of marine sediments showed that periods of glaciation and deglaciation were more frequent, shorter, and more cyclic than previously thought.
O Nineteenth-century geologists came to accept the idea that the areas covered by polar ice had reached as far as the equator, a far larger area than Agassiz had thought.
O Nineteenth-century geologists studying the layers of drift concluded that during the Pleistocene epoch, several glaciations had occurred with war periods between them.
O Research involving foraminifera fossil shells show that ocean temperatures in the Northern Hemisphere varied greatly during the most extensive periods of glaciation.


1. What can be inferred from paragraph 1 about western farmers prior to 1815?
O They had limited their crop production to wheat, corn, tobacco, and cotton.
O They were able to sell their produce at high prices.
O They had not been successful in raising cattle.
O They did not operate in a national market economy.


2. What is the purpose of the statement, “Whereas in 1810 only a seventh of the American people lived west of the Appalachian Mountains, by 1840 more than a third lived there”?
O To illustrate that generally population shifts occur rapidly
O To correct a mistaken impression of American agriculture from 1810 to 1840
O To emphasize the range and speed with which the westward migration occurred
O To demonstrated how attractive the Appalachian Mountains were to Americans


3. The word "fringes" in the passage is closest in meaning to
O borders
O groups
O types
O directions


4. According to paragraph 2, all of the following are reasons why Americans migrated westward EXCEPT
O the desire to move from one place to the next
O the hope of improving their socioeconomic status
O the opportunity to change jobs
O the need to escape religious or political crises


5. Which of the sentences below best expresses the essential information in the highlighted sentence in the passage? Incorrect choices change the meaning in important ways or leave out essential information.
O Because the West had more rivers and forests than the East, its soil was more productive.
O The fertile soils of the West drew farmers from regions with barren soils.
O Farmers living in western areas of the United States were more affected by soil erosion than farmers living in eastern areas.
O The soil in western areas of the United States was richer than soil in eastern areas.


6. According to paragraph 3, what was the significance of the land law passed in 1820?
O It granted government-supported loans to farmers.
O It provided farmland at an affordable price.
O It required banks to offer loans to farmers.
O It enabled farmers to sell their land for a profit.


7. The word "proliferation" in the passage is closest in meaning to
O growth
O cooperation
O importance
O success


8. Paragraph 4 suggests that turnpikes affected farmers by
O making the price of grain uniform for both eastern and western farmers
O making western farm products more profitable than eastern farm products
O allowing farmers to drive their livestock across mountain trails
O allowing a greater number of farmers to sell their farm products in a commercial market


9. The word "superseded" in the passage is closest in meaning to
O replaced
O reformed
O equaled
O increased


10. The word "diverted" in the passage is closest in meaning to
O collected
O shifted
O transported
O sold


11. Which of the following can be inferred from paragraph 5 about flatboats and keelboats?
O They ceased to be used as soon as the first turnpikes were built.
O They were slower and more expensive to operate than steamboats.
O They were used for long-distance but not for regional transportation.
O They were used primarily on the Erie Canal.


12. Paragraph 5 mentions that the Erie Canal led to a reduction in all of the following EXCEPT
O the length of the route that goods from the West traveled across to reach eastern markets
O the cost of transporting freight
O the price of produce from western states
O the amount of produce from western states that was shipped on rivers


13. Look at the four squares [■] that indicate where the following sentence can be added to the passage.
In fact, goods could be shipped more cheaply across the much greater distance of the Atlantic Ocean than they could from western New York to coastal cities.
Where would the sentence best fit?


14. Directions: An introductory sentence for a brief summary of the passage is provided below. Complete the summary by selecting the THREE answer choices that express the most important ideas in the passage. Some answer choices do not belong in the summary because they express ideas that are not presented in the passage or are minor ideas in the passage. This question is worth 2 points.
The westward movement of population across the United States led to expanded agricultural production.
O
O
O
Answer Choices
O The desire to improve their livelihood often inspired people to move  west.
O Among the people who moved to the western United States were a number of artisans.
O The fertility of western farmland as well as favorable government policies supported agricultural gains.
O Steamboats were originally used to transport passengers rather than freight.
O Commercial farming in the West was greatly enhanced by improvements in land and water transportation.
O The transportation revolution resulted in regional economies that operated independently of a national market economy.


