1. The word "agencies" in the passage is closest in meaning to
O combinations
O problems
O forces
O changes


2. In paragraph 1, what is the author's purpose in providing examples of how organisms are destroyed?
O To emphasize how surprising it is that so many fossils exist
O To introduce a new geologic theory of fossil preservation
O To explain why the fossil record until now has remained incomplete
O To compare how fossils form on land and in water


3. The word "terrestrial" in the passage is closest in meaning to
O land
O protected
O alternative
O similar


4. Which of the sentences below best expresses the essential information in the highlighted sentence in the passage? Incorrect choices change the meaning in important ways or leave out essential information.
O When snail or clam shells are left behind, they must be empty in order to remain durable and resist dissolution.
O Although snail and clam shells are durable and resist dissolving, over time they slowly begin to change.
O Although the soft parts of snails or clams dissolve quickly, their hard shells resist dissolution for a long time.
O Empty snail or clam shells that are strong enough not to dissolve may stay in their original state for a long time.


5. Why does the author mention "aragonite" in the passage?
O To emphasize that some fossils remain unaltered for millions of years
O To contrast fossil formation in organisms with soft tissue and in organisms with hard shells
O To explain that some marine organisms must undergo chemical changes in order to fossilize
O To explain why fossil shells are more likely to survive than are fossil skeletons


6. The word "enhance" in the passage is closest in meaning to
O control
O limit
O combine
O increase


7. Which of the following best explains the process of permineralization mentioned in paragraph 3?
O Water containing calcium carbonate circulates through a shell and deposits sediment.
O Liquid containing chemicals hardens an already existing fossil structure.
O Water passes through sediment surrounding a fossil and removes its chemical content.
O A chemical substance enters a fossil and changes its shape.


8. The word "precise" in the passage is closest in meaning to
O complex
O quick
O exact
O reliable


9. Paragraph 5 suggests which of the following about the carbonization process?
O It is completed soon after an organism dies.
O It does not occur in hard-shell organisms.
O It sometimes allows soft-tissued organisms to be preserved with all their parts.
O It is a more precise process of preservation than is replacement.


10. The word "prospect" in the passage is closest in meaning to
O completion
O variety
O possibility
O speed


11. According to paragraph 7, how do environments containing oxygen affect fossil preservation?
O They increase the probability that soft-tissued organisms will become fossils.
O They lead to more bacteria production.
O They slow the rate at which clay and silt are deposited.
O They reduce the chance that animal remains will be preserved.


12. According to the passage, all of the following assist in fossil preservation EXCEPT
O the presence of calcite in an organism's skeleton
O the presence of large open areas along an ocean floor
O the deposition of a fossil in sticky substances such as sap or tar
O the rapid burial of an organism under layers of silt


13. Look at the four squares [■] that indicate where the following sentence can be added to the passage.
But the evidence of past organic life is not limited to petrifaction.
Where would the sentence best fit?


14. Directions: An introductory sentence for a brief summary of the passage is provided below. Complete the summary by selecting the THREE answer choices that express the most important ideas in the passage. Some answer choices do not belong in the summary because they express ideas that are not presented in the passage or are minor ideas in the passage. This question is worth 2 points.
The remains of ancient life are amazingly well preserved in the form of fossils.
O
O
O
Answer Choices
O Environmental characteristics like those present on ocean floors increase the likelihood that plant and animal fossils will occur.
O Fossils are more likely to be preserved in shale deposits than in deposits of clay and silt.
O The shells of organisms can be preserved by processes of chemical precipitation or mineral exchange.
O Freezing enables the soft parts of organisms to survive longer than the hard parts.
O Comparatively few fossils are found in the terrestrial deposits of streams and lakes.
O Thin films of carbon may remain as an indication of soft tissue or actual tissue may be preserved if exposure to bacteria is limited.


1. According to the processes described in paragraph 1, what is the relationship between radioactivity and the steam produced by geothermal heat?
O Geothermally heated steam is produced when water is exposed to radioactivity deep underground.
O When water is introduced into holes drilled thousands of feet in the ground, it becomes radioactive and turns to steam.
O Radioactivity heats Earth's interior rock, which in turn can heat water to the point it becomes steam.
O When a reservoir of steam in subsurface rock is produced by radioactivity, it is said to be geothermally heated.


2. The word "practical" in the passage is closest in meaning to
O usable
O plentiful
O economical
O familiar


3. The word "abundant" in the passage is closest in meaning to
O economical
O familiar
O plentiful
O useful


4. According to paragraph 2, which of the following is true about heat reservoirs with a temperature in the range of 80° to 180° centigrade?
O They are under international control.
O They are more common than reservoirs that have a higher temperature.
O Few of them produce enough heat to warm large industrial spaces.
O They are used to generate electricity.


5. According to paragraph 3, what is the connection between underground faults and naturally occurring steam?
O Underground faults enable the heat from molten-rock material to escape upward to regions where it can heat surface water enough to produce steam.
O Underground faults are created by steam that is produced in geothermal reservoirs deep inside Earth.
O Underground faults create spaces in which natural steam is sometimes trapped.
O Underground faults allow surface water to reach deep rocks that are hot enough to turn it into steam.


6. In paragraph 3, why does the author mention that in the 1990s The Geysers was in its third decade of production?
O To provide the historical context of the geothermal production of electricity in the United States
O To imply that The Geysers was the first geothermal site to be put into production in California
O To help explain the signs of decline shown by The Geysers
O To explain why 70 new geothermal sites were put into electricity production in the late 1990s


7. Which of the following can be inferred from paragraphs 2 and 3 about geothermal reservoirs?
O Volcanic heat is associated only with geothermal reservoirs that have a temperature over 180° centigrade.
O More countries produce power from geothermal reservoirs than use them for heating buildings.
O Most geothermal reservoirs are suitable for producing electricity.
O A higher geothermal reservoir temperature is needed to generate electricity than is needed to heat homes.


8. According to paragraph 4, extracting heat from very hot, dry rocks is difficult in part because
O the underground rock must be fractured before heat can be removed from it
O the water above the rock is under very high pressure
O the rock breaks apart when water is pumped into it
O the water circulated through the rock must be much cooler than the rock itself


9. The word "exploiting" in the passage is closest in meaning to
O locating
O increasing
O making use of
O estimating the size of


10. How is the problem that the surface may sink related to the problem that water heated geothermally may contain toxic materials?
O Both problems could be solved by returning groundwater that is removed from an underground heat reservoir back to the reservoir after heat is extracted from it.
O The problem of sinking is more difficult to solve than is the problem of toxic materials.
O Land at the surface sinks because the rock beneath the surface is weakened when salts and toxic materials are removed from it in the process of extracting geothermal energy.
O Both problems are caused by the fact that the hot groundwater in a heat reservoir dissolves the rock, which weakens the rock and makes the water toxic with salt.


11. Which of the sentences below best expresses the essential information in the highlighted sentence in the passage? Incorrect choices change the meaning in important ways or leave out essential information.
O Heat flows through solid rock very slowly, so it takes a very long time for geological processes to produce a reservoir of geothermal energy.
O Geothermal energy is not renewable because heat flows very slowly through solid rock into or out of a heat reservoir.
O The heat quickly removed from a heat reservoir is replaced so slowly by geological processes that geothermal energy is not practically speaking, renewable.
O In most cases, heat travels into a heat reservoir so slowfy that it is a much quicker process to remove the heat from a reservoir than to replace it.


12. In paragraph 6, the author implies that in California, Hawaii, the Philippines, Japan, Mexico, and the rift valleys of Africa the potential size of the geothermal resource is so large that
O it might be economically worth developing these sites even though geothermal energy is not renewable
O these sites will be the first geothermal energy sites to be developed witb new technology
O these sites are likely to make a large-scale contribution to the world energy budget in the twenty-first century
O it does not matter whether they have naturally occurring deposits of hot water or steam


13. Look at the four squares [■] that indicate where the following sentence could be added to the passage.
In either case, the heated water will usually be under considerable pressure, and so may have a temperature that is well above its sea-level boiling point of 100° centigrade.
Where would the sentence best fit? Click on a square to add the sentence to the passage.


14. Directions: An introductory sentence for a brief summary of the passage is provided below. Complete the summary by selecting the THREE answer choices that express the most important ideas in the passage. Some sentences do not belong in the summary because they express ideas that are not presented in the passage or are minor
ideas in the passage. This question is worth 2 points.
Heat reservoirs in the form of hot rock far beneath Earth's surface are a potential source of usable geothermal energy.
O
O
O
Answer Choices
O Heat reservoirs with a temperature from 80° to 180° centigrade can be used, as in France and Iceland, to heat buildings.
O A number of countries now use geothermal reservoirs that contain water or steam above 180° centigrade to generate electricity.
O Most heat reservoirs with a temperature above 180° centigrade cannot be used for energy because they are usually too close to recent volcanic activity.
O The sinking of land above heat reservoirs and other environmental problems arise when water is pumped into a heat reservoir under high pressure.
O Experiments are under way to determine if geothermally heated waters could be used as a source of certain minerals that have been dissolved out of hot rocks deep within Earth.
O A number of issues, including how to extract heat from reservoirs that do not have a natural supply of water, will significantly limit the use of geothermal energy for the foreseeable future.


