1. The word vital in the passage is closest in
○ attractive
○ essential
○ usual
○ practical


2. Paragraph 1 suggests that one reason Egyptian art is viewed less favorably than other art is that Egyptian art lacks
○ a realistic sense of human body proportion
○ a focus on distinctive forms of varying sizes
○ the originality of European art
○ the capacity to show the human body in motion


3. In paragraph 1, the author mentions all of the following as necessary in appreciating Egyptian art EXCEPT an understanding of
○ the reasons why the art was made
○ the nature of aristocratic Egyptian beliefs
○ the influences of Egyptian art on later art such as classical Greek art
○ how the art was used


4. According to paragraph 2, why are Egyptian statues portrayed frontalty?
○ To create a psychological effect of distance and isolation
○ To allow them to fulfill their important role in ceremonies of Egyptian life
○ To provide a contrast to statues with a decorative function
○ To suggest the rigid, unchanging Egyptian philosophical attitudes


5. The word context in the passage is closest in meaning to
○ connection
○ influence
○ environment
○ requirement


6. The author mentions an architectural setting in the passage in order to
○ suggest that architecture was as important as sculpture to Egyptian artists
○ offer 3 further explanation for the frontal pose of Egyptian statues
○ explain how the display of statues replaced other forms of architectural decoration
○ illustrate the religious function of Egyptian statues


7. The word they in the passage refers to
○ statues
○ gateways
○ temples
○ pillared courts


8. According to paragraph 3, why were certain areas of a stone statue left uncarved?
○ To prevent damage by providing physical stability
○ To emphasize that the material was as important as the figure itself
○ To emphasize that the figure was not meant to be a real human being
○ To provide another artist with the chance to finish the carving


9. The word core in the passage is closest in meaning to
○ material
○ layer
○ center
○ frame


10. According to paragraph 3, which of the following statements about wooden statues is true?
○ Wooden statues were usually larger than stone statues.
○ Wooden statues were made from a single piece of wood.
○ Wooden statues contained pieces of metal or stone attached to the front.
○ Wooden statues had a different effect on the viewer than stone statues.


11. The word depicts in the passage is closest in meaning to
○ imagines
○ classifies
○ elevates
○ portrays


12. According to paragraph 4, what is the difference between statues that represent the Egyptian elite and statues that represent the nonelite classes?
○ Statues of the elite are included in tombs, but statues of the nonelite are not.
○ Statues of the elite are in motionless poses, while statues of the nonelite are in active poses.
○ Statues of the elite are shown standing, while statues of the nonelite are shown sitting or kneeling
○ Statues of the elite serve an important function, while statues of the nonelite are decorative


13. Look at the four squares [■] that indicate where the following sentence could be added to the passage.
In fact, it is the action and not the figure itself that is important.
Where would the sentence best fit?


14. Directions: An introductory sentence for a brief summary of the passage is provided below. Complete the summary by selecting the THREE answer that express the most important ideas in the passage. Some sentences do not belong in the summary because they express ideas that not presented in the passage or are minor ideas in the passage. This question is worth 2 points.
The distinctive look of ancient Egyptian sculpture was determined largely by its function.
Answer Choices
○ The twisted forms of Egyptian statues indicate their importance in ritual actions.
○ The reason Egyptian statues are motionless is linked to their central role in cultural rituals.
○ Stone, wood, and metal statues all display the feature of frontality.
○ Statues were more often designed to be viewed in isolation rather than placed within buildings.
○ The contrasting poses used in statues of elite and nonelite Egyptians reveal their difference in social status.
○ Although the appearances of formal and generic statues differ, they share the same function.


