1. Paragraph 1 supports which of the following statements about mass extinctions?
○They take place over a period of 70 million years.
○They began during the Cretaceous period.
○They eliminate many animal species that exist at the time they occur.
○They occur every 250 million years.


2. According to paragraph 2, scientists base their belief that a mass extinction is going on at present on which of the following?
○The speed with which mass extinctions are happening today is similar to the speed of past extinctions.
○The number of species that have died out since the last extinction event is extremely large.
○Mass extinctions occur with regularity and it is time for another one.
○Fossil records of many marine species have disappeared.


3. The word extended in the passage is closest in meaning to
○specific
○unlimited
○reasonable
○long


4. According to paragraph 3, each of the following has been proposed as a possible cause of mass extinctions EXCEPT
○habitat destruction
○continental movement
○fierce interspecies competition
○changes in Earth's tem perature


5. Paragraph 3 supports which of the following ideas about mass extinctions?
○Scientists know the exact causes of most mass extinctions.
○Mass extinctions are unlikely to happen again in the future.
○Insects, flowering plants, and bottom-feeding predators in the oceans tend to be the first organisms to dgappear during episodes of mass extinctions.
○Some mass extinctions occurred on land and in the seas at the same time.


6. Which of the sentences below best expresses the essential information in the highlighted sentence in the passage? Incorrect choices change the meaning in important ways or leave out essential information.
○Based on their studies of extinction rates of numerous fossil groups, paleontologists David Raup and John Sepkoski have determined that mass extinctions occur about every 26 million years.
○David Raup and John Sepkoski studied extinction rates of numerous fossil groups and suggest that mass extinctions during the Cretaceous period continued for 26 million years.
○Studies that paleontologists David Raup and John Sepkoski conducted of various fossil groups have revealed that extinction rates have increased over the past 26 million years.
○The studies conducted by paleontologists David Raup and John Sepkoski of the fossil remains of species suggest that the extinction rate of species started to increase by the middle of the Cretaceous period.


7. According to paragraph 4, what aspect of extinction episodes does the companion-star hypothesis supposedly clarify?
○Their location
○Their frequency
○Their duration
○Their severity


8. The phrase account for in the passage is closest in meaning to
○describe
○challenge
○explain
○test


9. According to paragraph 6, what made iridium a useful test of the Alvarez hypothesis?
○Its occurrence in a few locations on Earth against several locations on other planets
○Its occurrence in limited quantities on Earth against its abundance in asteroids
○Its ability to remain solid at extremely high temperatures
○Its ease of detection even in very small amounts


10. In stating that no asteroid itself has ever been recovered the author emphasizes which of the following?
○The importance of the indirect evidence for a large asteroid
○The fact that no evidence supports the asteroid impact hypothesis
○The reason many researchers reject the Alvarez hypothesis
○The responsibility of scientists for not making the effort to discover the asteroid itself


11. The word intense in the passage is closest in meaning to
○sudden
○unusual
○immediate
○extreme


12. What is the purpose of paragraph 7 in the passage?
○It proposes a decisive new test of the Alvarez hypothesis.
○It presents additional supporting evidence for the Alvarez hypothesis.
○It explains why evidence relating to the Alvarez hypothesis is hard to find.
○It shows how recent evidence has raised doubts about the Alvarez hypothesis


13. Look at the four squares [█] that indicate where the following sentence could be added to the passage.
In general, it is believed that these two extinctions resulted from drastic environmental changes that followed meteorite impacts or massive volcanic eruptions.
Where would the sentence best fit?


14. Directions: An introductory sentence for a brief summary of the passage is provided below. Complete the summary by selecting the THREE answer choices that express the most important ideas in the passage. Some sentences do not belong in the summary because they express ideas that are not presented in the passage or are minor ideas in the passage. This question is worth 2 points.
○Asteroid impacts, evolutionary developments, and changes in Earth' s climate and in the positions of the continents have all been proposed as possible causes of mass extinctions.
○Researchers have observed 26-million-year cycles in extinction rates of a number of fossil groups that could all be attributed to the same cause.
○According to the Alvarez hypothesis, much of the iridium originally present on Earth was thrown into the atmosphere as a result of an asteroid impact that also caused a mass extinction.
○The unusual distribution of iridium on Earth and the presence of craters and heat-shocked quartz are central to the theory that an asteroid impact caused the late Cretaceous event.
○The collision between Earth and a large asteroid resulted in massive damage and generated enough heat to cause irreversible changes in Earth' s atmosphere.
○There was a particularly large mass extinction that occurred around 250 million years ago at the end of the Permian period, whose cause could not be determined.


