1.Which of the following is NOT mentioned in paragraph 1 as being a difficult judgment for children to make about advertised toys?
○How big the toys are
○How much the toys cost
○What the toys can do
○How the toys are made


2. The word “Verify” in the passage is closest in meaning to
○establish the truth of
○approve of
○understand
○criticize


3.In paragraph 2, what is one reason that claims such as “the best” or “better than” can be misleading?
○They represent the opinions of adults, which are often different from those of children.
○They generally involve comparisons among only a small group of products.
○They reflect the attitudes of consumer protection groups rather than those of actual consumers.
○They reflect the advertiser's viewpoint about the product.


4.Cereal advertisements that include the statement “when part of a nutritionally balanced breakfast" are trying to suggest that
○the cereal is a desirable part of a healthful, balanced breakfast
○the cereal contains equal amounts of all nutrients
○cereal is a healthier breakfast than other foods are
○the cereal is the most nutritious part of the breakfast meal


5. According to paragraph 2, all of the following are true of disclaimers made in advertisements EXCEPT:
○They are qualifications or conditions put on a claim.
○They may be used to balance exaggerations.
○They are usually presented in both audio and visual formats.
○They are often difficult for children to understand.


6. The word "adept” in the passage is closest in meaning to
○responsible
○skillful
○patient
○curious


7.Paragraph 3 indicates that there is uncertainty about which of the following issues involving children and fantasy in advertising?
○Whether children can tell if what they are seeing in an advertisement is real or fantasy
○Whether children can differentiate fantasy techniques from other techniques used in advertising
○Whether children realize how commonly fantasy techniques are used in advertising aimed at them
○Whether children are attracted to advertisements that lack fantasy


8.Which of the sentences below best expresses the essential information in the highlighted sentence in the passage? Incorrect choices change the meaning in important ways or leave out essential information.
○Rational appeals in advertising are certainly limited by children's emotional immaturity and the indirect nature of their associations.
○Indirect appeals to children's psychological states or associations can limit the effectiveness of rational appeals in advertising.
○Rational appeals play a much smaller role in advertisements for children than emotional appeals and psychological associations do.
○Rational appeals in advertising aimed at children should certainly be limited until the children are emotionally and psychologically ready.


9. The word "attributes" in the passage is closest in meaning to
○Evaluations
○Attitudes
○Actions
○Characteristics


10. In paragraph 4, why does the author mention a show about a cartoon lion in which an advertisement appears featuring the same lion character?
○To help explain what is meant by the term "host selling” and why it can be misleading to children
○To explain why the role of celebrities in advertising aimed at children has often been confused with host selling
○To compare the effectiveness of using animated figures with the effectiveness of using celebrities in advertisements aimed at children
○To indicate how Kunkel first became interested in studying the effects of host selling on children


11. The word "credible” in the passage is closest in meaning to
○helpful
○believable
○valuable
○familiar


12. Look at the four squares [■] that indicate where the following sentence could be added to the passage.
Another aspect of advertising that may especially influence children is fantasy.
Where would the sentence best fit? Click on a square to add the sentence to the passage.


13.Directions: An introductory sentence for a brief summary of the passage is provided below. Complete the summary by selecting the THREE answer that express the most important ideas in the passage. Some sentences do not belong in the summary because they express ideas that not presented in the passage or are minor ideas in the passage. This question is worth 2 points.
Advertisements can be misleading to children when the advertisements use audio and visual formats that are especially appealing to children.
Answer Choices
○Children may not be able to interpret exaggerated claims made by advertisers or understand the disclaimers used to offset claims.
○Although the use of celebrities is not necessarily effective in advertisements aimed at children, there is evidence that host selling can positively affect their views of a product.
○Studies show that misleading tactics are used most often in commercials for breakfast cereals, with toy commercials using such tactics only slightly less frequently.
○The use of fantasy is especially common in advertisements for children, but children may not be able to distinguish fantasy from reality.
○Very young children are particularly influenced by host selling, while slightly older children are more readily misled by seemingly rational claims such as 'the best."
○Advertisements can be misleading to children when the advertisements use audio and visual formats that are especially appealing to children.


