1. The word “accumulate” in the passage is closest in meaning to
○Grow up
○Build up
○Spread out
○Break apart


2. According to paragraph 1, which of the following is true about petroleum formation?
○Microscopic organisms that live in mud produce crude oil and natural gas.
○Large amounts of oxygen are needed for petroleum formation to begin.
○Petroleum is produced when organic material in sediments combines with decaying marine organisms.
○Petroleum formation appears to begin in marine sediments where organic matter is present.


3. In paragraphs 1 and 2, the author’s primary purpose is to
○Describe how petroleum is formed
○Explain why petroleum formation is a slow process
○Provide evidence that a marine environment is necessary for petroleum formation
○Show that oil commonly occurs in association with gas


4. Which of the sentences below best expresses the essential information in the highlighted sentence in the passage? Incorrect choices change the meaning in important ways or leave out essential information.
○Higher temperatures and pressures promote sedimentation, which is responsible for petroleum formation.
○Deposits of sediments on top of organic matter increase the temperature of and pressure on the matter.
○Increase pressure and heat from the weight of the sediment turn the organic remains into petroleum.
○The remains of microscopic organisms transform into petroleum once they are buried under mud.


5. The word “adjacent” in the passage is closest in meaning to
○Nearby
○Existing
○Special
○Deep


6. Which of the following can be inferred from paragraph 3 about gushers?
○They make bringing the oil to the surface easier.
○They signal the presence of huge oil reserves.
○They waste more oil than they collect.
○They are unlikely to occur nowadays.


7. Which of the following strategies for oil exploration is described in paragraph 4 and paragraph 5?
○Drilling under the ocean’s surface
○Limiting drilling to accessible locations
○Using highly sophisticated drilling equipment
○Constructing technologically advanced drilling platforms


8. What does the development of the Alaskan oil field mentioned in paragraph 4 demonstrate?
○More oil is extracted from the sea than from land.
○Drilling for oil requires major financial investments.
○The global demand for oil has increased over the years.
○The North Slope of Alaska has substantial amounts of oil.


9. The word “sloping” in the passage is closest in meaning to
○Shifting
○Inclining
○Forming
○Rolling


10. According to paragraph 5, the decision to drill for oil depends on all of the following factors EXCEPT
○permission to access the area where oil has been found
○the availability of sufficient quantities of oil in a pool
○the location of the market in relation to the drilling site
○the political situation in the region where drilling would occur


11. The word “foul” in the passage is closest in meaning to
○Reach
○Flood
○Pollute
○Alter


12. In paragraph 6, the author’s primary purpose is to
○Provide examples of how oil exploration can endanger the environment
○Describe accidents that have occurred when oil activities were in progress
○Give an analysis of the effects of oil spills on the environment
○Explain how technology and legislation help reduce oil spills


13.Look at the four squares [█] that indicate where the following sentence could be added to the passage.
Unless something acts to halt this migration, these natural resources will eventually reach the surface.
Where would the sentence best fit?


14. Directions: An introductory sentence for a brief summary of the passage is provided below. Complete the summary by selecting the THREE answer choices that express the most important ideas in the passage. Some sentences do not belong in the summary because they express ideas that are not presented in the passage or are minor ideas in the passage. This question is worth 2 points.
“Petroleum” is a broad term that includes both crude oil and natural gas.
Answer choices
○Petroleum formation is the result of biological as well as chemical activity.
○The difficulty of finding adequate sources of oil on land has resulted in a greater number of offshore drilling sites.
○Petroleum extraction can have a negative impact on the environment.
○Petroleum tends to rise to the surface, since it is lower in density than water.
○Current methods of petroleum extraction enable oil producers to recover about half of the world’s petroleum reserves.
○Accidents involving oil tankers occur when tankers run into shore reefs or collide with other vessels.


