1. The word “prestige” in the passage is closest in meaning to
○interest
○status
○demand
○profit


2. According to paragraph 1, what made it possible for Inner Eurasian pastoralism to become the most mobile and militaristic form of pastoralism?
○It involved the domestication of several types of animals.
○It was based primarily on horses rather than on other animals.
○It borrowed and improved upon European ideas for mobility and warfare.
○It could be adapted to a wide variety of environments.


3. The word "profound” in the passage is closest in meaning to
○strange
○positive
○direct
○far-reaching


4. In paragraph 2, why does the author contrast pastoralists with agriculturalists?
○To explain why pastoralism requires more land than agriculturalism to support basic needs
○To identify some advantages that mobile societies have over immobile societies
○To demonstrate that ecological principles that apply to pastoralism do not apply to agriculturalism
○To argue that agriculturalism eventually developed out of pastoralism


5. According to paragraph 2, pastoralists tend to
○prefer grazing their animals on agricultural lands
○consume comparatively large amounts of food and clothing
○avoid eating plant foods
○move from place to place frequently


6. In paragraph 3, why does the author discuss languages spoken in the region spanning from Eastern Europe to the westem borders of Mongolia?
○To emphasize the frequency with which Indo-European languages changed as a result of the mobile nature of pastoralism
○To indicate one method linguists use to determine that inhabitants of the Don and Dnieper river area had taken up stock breeding
○Provide evidence that Indo-European languages have their roots in what is now Turkey
○To provide evidence that pastorahst societies can exercise cultural influence over a large area
○reliable
○noticeable
○convincing
○violent
○use to advantage
○depart from
○pay attention to
○travel across


9. According to paragraph 4, the fact that pastoralist communities are subject to “strict rules of portability” encourages such communities to
○relocate less frequently than they would otherwise
○have households that are more or less equal in wealth
○become self-sufficient in the manufacture of silk and jewelry
○share large material surpluses with neighboring communities


10. According to paragraph 4, all of the following are true of social inequality in pastoralist societies EXCEPT:
○It exists and has existed to some degree in most pastoral societies.
○It is most marked during periods of military conquest.
○It is expressed in the form of a rigid hierarchy based largely on heredity.
○It is usually too insignificant to be discussed in terms of class differences.
○Despite the fact that wealth is relatively evenly distributed in pastoral societies, gender inequality still exists because only men can acquire military skills and social status.
○Inequalities of gender existed in pastoralist societies until most communities began to require women to possess the same skills as men and take part in the military.
○Inequalities of gender in pastoralist societies were caused by steep hierarchies of wealth and differences in military training between men and women.
○In pastoral societies, gender inequality is comparatively mild because wealth is relatively evenly distributed and women have to learn most of the same skills that men do.


12.Look at the four squares [■] that indicate where the following sentence could be added to the passage
There is a good reason for this.
Where would the sentence best fit? Click on a square to add the sentence to the passage.


13.Directions: An introductory sentence for a brief summary of the passage is provided below. Complete the summary by selecting the THREE answer that express the most important ideas in the passage. Some sentences do not belong in the summary because they express ideas that not presented in the passage or are minor ideas in the passage. This question is worth 2 points.
By 3000 B.C., a distinctive form of pastoralism had appeared on the steppes of Inner Eurasia.
Answer Choices
○The domesticated horse is primarily responsible for Inner Eurasian pastoralism's success in mobility and warfare.
○As pastoralists traveled across large areas of terrain with their domesticated animals, they traded valuable material goods such as silks and jewelry.
○Because pastoralists are highly mobile, they tend to have few material possessions and can influence the culture, ecology, and language of very large areas.
○Because pastoralism requires a great deal of land to support its animal-based lifeway, pastoralists must continually relocate and have comparatively egalitarian societies.
○Most scholars now believe that Indo-European languages probably evolved during the Neolithic period in the region of the Don and Dnieper rivers.
○Pastorslist communities do not have social classes in the usual sense because they value spiritual attainment over material wealth.


