1. Paragraph 1 indicates that researchers use indirect methods primarily to observe the
○range of motor activity in neonates
○frequency and duration of various stimuli
○change in an infant's state following the introduction of a stimulus
○range of an infant's visual field


2. The word uniformly in the passage is closest in meaning to
○clearly
○quickly
○consistently
○occasionally


3. Why does the author mention repetitive following movements of the eye ?
○To identify a response that indicates a neonate's perception of a stimulus
○To explain why a neonate is capable of responding to stimuli only through repetitive movements
○To argue that motor activity in a neonate may be random and unrelated to stimuli
○To emphasize that responses to stimuli vary in infants according to age


4. Which of the following is NOT mentioned in paragraph 2 as a problem in using the technique of direct observation?
○It is impossible to be certain of the actual cause of an infant's response.
○Infants' responses, which occur quickly and diffusely, are often difficult to measure.
○Infants do not respond well to stimuli presented in an unnatural laboratory setting.
○It may be difficult for observers to agree on the presence or the degree of a response.


5. The word potent in the passage is closest in meaning to
○artificial
○powerful
○common
○similar


6. Which of the sentences below best expresses the essential information in the highlighted sentence in the passage? Incorrect choices change the meaning in important ways or leave out essential information.
○Researchers using observational assessment techniques on infants must not over generalize and must base their conclusions on data from many studies.
○On the basis of the data from one or two studies, it seems that some infants develop a particular perceptual ability not observed in others.
○To use data from one or two studies on infant's perceptual abilities, it is necessary to use techniques that will provide conclusive evidence.
○When researchers fail to make generalizations from their studies, their observed data is often inconclusive.


7. What is the author's primary purpose in paragraph 3?
○To explain why researchers must conduct more than one type of study when they are attempting to understand infant perception
○To describe new techniques for observing infant perception that overcome problems identified in the previous paragraph
○To present and evaluate the conclusions of various studies on infant perception
○To point out the strengths and weaknesses of three new methods for quantifying an infant's reaction to stimuli


8. The word quantifiable in the passage is closest in meaning to
○visual
○permanent
○meaningful
○measurable


9. Paragraph 3 mentions all of the following as indications of an infant's heightened interest in a new stimulus EXCEPT an increase in
○sucking behavior
○heart rate
○the number of breaths taken
○eye movements


10. According to paragraph 4, which of the following leads to the conclusion that infants are able to differentiate between stimuli in a habituation dishabituation study?
○Dishabituation occurs with the introduction of a new stimulus.
○Electrical responses in the infant's brain decline with each new stimulus.
○Habituation is continued with the introduction of a new stimulus.
○The infant displays little change in electrical sbrain responses.


11. In paragraph 4, what does the author suggest about the way an infant's brain perceives stimuli?
○An infant's potential to respond to a stimulus may be related to the size of its brain.
○Changes in the electrical patterns of an infant's brain are difficult to detect.
○Different areas of an infant's brain respond to different types of stimuli.
○An infant is unable to perceive more than one stimulus at a time.


12. Paragraph 5 indicates that researchers who used the techniques described in the passage discovered that
○infants find it difficult to perceive some types of stimuli
○neonates of only a few days cannot yet discriminate between stimuli
○observational assessment is less useful for studying infant perception than researchers previously believed
○a neonate is able to perceive stimuli better than researchers once thought


13. Look at the four squares [■] that indicate where the following sentence could be added to the passage.
The repetition allows researchers to observe the infant's behavior until they reach agreement about the presence and the degree of the infant's response.
Where would the sentence best fit?


14. Directions: An introductory sentence for a brief summary of the passage is provided below. Complete the summary by selecting the THREE answer that express the most important ideas in the passage. Some sentences do not belong in the summary because they express ideas that not presented in the passage or are minor ideas in the passage. This question is worth 2 points.
Researchers use a number of techniques to determine how infants respond to changes in their environment
Answer choices
○Data from observational methods must be confirmed through multiple studies.
○New techniques for studying infant perception have improved the accuracy with which researchers observe and quantify infant responses
○Indirect observation is most accurate when researchers use it to test auditory and olfactory perception in neonates.
○Visual indicators such as turning the head, blinking the eyes, or crying remain the best evidence of an infant’s perceptual abilities.
○Pacifiers are commonly used in studies to calm an infant who has been presented with excessive stimuli.
○Sophisticated techniques that have aided new discoveries about perception in the neonate continue to be indirect measures.


