1. The word justified in the passage is closest in meaning to
○supported
○shaped
○stimulated
○suggested


2. According to paragraph 1, it was believed that reflection could help teachers
○understand intellectual principles of teaching
○strengthen their intellectual connection to their work
○use scientific fact to improve discipline and teaching
○adopt a more disciplined approach to teaching


3. The word flourish in the passage is closest in meaning to
○continue
○occur
○succeed
○apply


4. All of the following are mentioned about the experimental strategy described in paragraph 2 EXCEPT:
○It was designed so that teachers would eventually reflect without help from others
○It was used by a group of teachers over a period of years.
○It involved having teachers take part in discussions of classroom events
○It involved having teachers record in writing their reflections about teaching


5. According to paragraph 2, Wildman and Niles worried that the teachers they were working with might feel that
○the number of teachers involved in their program was too large
○the concepts of teacher reflection were so abstract that they could not be applied
○the ideas involved in reflection were actually not new and refreshing
○several years would be needed to acquire the habit of reflecting on their teaching


6. The word objective in the passage is closest in meaning to
○unbiased
○positive
○systematic
○thorough


7. According to paragraph 3, what did the teachers working with Wildman and Niles often fail to do when they attempted to practice reflection?
○Correctly calculate the amount of time needed for reflection
○Provide sufficiently detailed descriptions of the methods they used to help them reflect
○Examine thoughtfully the possible causes of events in their classrooms
○Establish realistic goals for themselves in practicing reflection


8. How is paragraph 4 related to other aspects of the discussion of reflection in the passage?
○It describes and comments on steps taken to overcome problems identified earlier in the passage
○It challenges the earlier claim that teachers rarely have the time to think about their own or others' teaching
○It identifies advantages gained by teachers who followed the training program described earlier in the passage
○It explains the process used to define the principles discussed later in the passage


9. The word compelling in the passage is closest in meaning to
○commonly held
○persuasive
○original
○practical


10. According to paragraph 6, teachers may be discouraged from reflecting because
○it is not generally supported by teacher educators
○the benefits of reflection may not be apparent immediately
○it is impossible to teach and reflect on one's teaching at the same time
○they have often failed in their attempts to become reflective practitioners


11. Which of the sentences below expresses the essential information in the highlighted sentence in the passage? Incorrect choices change the meaning in important ways or leave out essential information
○The practice of being reflective is no longer simply a habit among teachers but something that is externally motivated
○Most teachers need to explore ways to form the habit of reflection even when no external motivation exists
○Many aspects of the motivation to reflect have not been studied, including the comparative benefits of externally motivated and habitual reflection among teachers
○There has not been enough exploration of why teachers practice reflection as a habit with or without external motivation


12. Look at the four squares [■] that indicate where the following sentence could be added to the passage.
However, changing teachers’ thinking about reflection will not succeed unless there is support for reflection in the teaching environment.
Where could the sentence best fit?


13. Directions: An introductory sentence for a brief summary of the passage is provided below. Complete the summary by selecting the THREE answer choices that express the most important ideas in the passage. Some answer choices do not belong in the summary because they express ideas that are not presented in the passage or are minor ideas in the passage. This question is worth 2 points.
○Through their work with Virginia teachers, Wildman and Niles proved conclusively that reflection, though difficult, benefits both teachers and students.
○Wildman and Niles found that considerable training and practice are required to understand classroom events and develop the skills involved in reflection.
○Wildman and Niles identified three principles that teachers can use to help themselves cope with problems that may arise as a result of reflection.
○Wildman and Niles concluded that teachers need sufficient resources as well as the cooperation and encouragement of others to practice reflection.
○There are numerous obstacles to implementing reflection in schools and insufficient understanding of why teachers might want to reflect.
○Whether teachers can overcome the difficulties involved in reflection may depend on the nature and intensity of their motivation to reflect


