1. What purpose does paragraph 2 serve in the larger discussion of children’s inability to recall early experiences?
○To argue that the ones that are not substantiated by evidence should generally be considered unreliable
○To argue that the hypotheses mentioned in paragraph 2 have been more thoroughly researched than have the theories mentioned later in the passage
○To explain why some theories about infantile amnesia are wrong before presenting ones more likely to be true
○To explain why infantile amnesia is of great interest to researchers


2. The word plausible in the passage is closest in meaning to
○flexible
○believable
○debatable
○predictable


3. The word phenomenon in the passage is closest in meaning to
○exception
○ repetition
○occurrence
○idea


4.All of the following theories about the inability to recall early experiences are rejected in paragraph 2 EXCEPT：
○The ability to recall an event decreases as the time after the event increases. 
○Young children are not capable of forming memories that last for more than a short time. 
○People may hold back sexually meaningful memories. 
○Most events in childhood are too ordinary to be worth remembering. 


5. What does paragraph 3 suggest about long-term memory in children?
○Maturation of the frontal lobes of the brain is important for the long-term memory of motor activities but not verbal descriptions. 
○Young children may form long-term memories of actions they see earlier than of things they hear or are told. 
○Young children have better long-term recall of short verbal exchanges than of long ones. 
○Children’s long-term recall of motor activities increases when such activities are accompanied by explicit verbal descriptions


6.According to paragraph 4，what role may storytelling play in forming childhood memories?
○It may encourage the physiological maturing of the brain
○It may help preschool children tell the difference between ordinary and unusual memories. 
○It may help preschool children retrieve memories quickly. 
○It may provide an ordered structure that facilitates memory retrieval


7. The word critically in the passage is closest in meaning to
○fundamentally
○partially
○consistently
○subsequently


8. The word “perspective” in the passage is closest in meaning to
○ system
○ theory
○ source
○ viewpoint


9. The phrase “This view” in the passage refers to the belief that
○the ability to retrieve a memory partly depends on the similarity between the encoding and retrieving process
○the process of encoding information is less complex for adults than it is for young adults and infants
○infants and older children are equally dependent on discussion of past events for the retrieval of information
○infants encode information in the same way older children and adults do


10.According to paragraphs 5 and 6，one disadvantage very young children face in processing information is that they cannot
○process a lot of information at one time
○organize experiences according to type
○block out interruptions
○interpret the tone of adult language


11. Which of the sentences below best expresses the essential information in the highlighted sentence in the passage? Incorrect choices change the meaning in important ways or leave out essential information. 
○Incomplete physiological development may partly explain why hearing stories does not improve long-term memory in infants and toddlers
○One reason why preschoolers fail to comprehend the stories they hear is that they are physiologically immature
○Given the chance to hear stories，infants and toddlers may form enduring memories despite physiological immaturity. 
○Physiologically mature children seem to have no difficulty remembering stories they heard as preschoolers. 


12. How does paragraph 7 relate to the earlier discussion of infantile amnesia?
○It introduces a new theory about the causes of infantile amnesia.
○It argues that particular theories discussed earlier in the passage require further research.
○It explains how particular theories discussed earlier in the passage may work in combination.
○It evaluates which of the theories discussed earlier is most likely to be true.


13.Look at the four squares[█]that indicate where the following sentence could be added to the passage
Other important occasions are school graduations and weddings.
Where would the sentence best fit?


14. There are several possible explanations why people cannot easily remember their early childhoods. 
Answer Choices
○Preschoolers typically do not recall events from their first year.
○Frontal lobe function of the brain may need to develop before memory retrieval can occur.
○Children recall physical activities more easily if they are verbalized. 
○The opportunity to hear chronologically narrated stories may help three-year-old children produce long-lasting memories. 
○The content of a memory determines the way in which it is encoded
○The contrasting ways in which young children and adults process information may determine their relative success in remembering. 


