1. The word "ample" in the passage is closest in meaning to
O surprising
O convincing
O plentiful
O questionable


2. According to paragraph 1, infantile amnesia has intrigued psychologists because
O the ability to recount memories prior to three years of age seems to be connected to intelligence in adulthood
O psychologists do not understand why some people are able to recount memories from before the age of three years, while others are not able do so
O psychologists do not understand the connection between infantile amnesia and autobiographical memory
O although psychologists have evidence that infants have memory abilities, most people cannot remember life events that happened before the age of three years


3. According to paragraph 1, what is the evidence that a child has developed autobiographical memory?
O The child is able to remember past events from before the age of three years.
O The child is able to describe past events in a sufficiently lengthy and cohesive manner.
O The child is aware that he or she does not remember experiences from before the age of three years.
O The child is able to give a basic description of the nature of autobiographical memory.


4. In paragraph 2, why does the author provide the information that children with low verbal skills showed evidence of remembering a past event?
O To provide evidence that memories do not depend only upon verbal skills
O To challenge the idea that one year olds are too young to form memories
O To argue that the memory of one year olds depends only on action-based codes
O To suggest that Piaget later revised his findings on the correlation between memory and verbal ability


5. The word "reasonable" in the passage is closest in meaning to
O consistent
O sufficient
O apparent
O deep


6. The word "elaboration" in the passage is closest in meaning to
O development
O specialization
O use
O transformation


7. According to paragraph 3, what is the relationship between autobiographical memory and the development of an understanding of the self?
O Autobiographical memory aids in the development of an understanding of the self.
O Children possess an understanding of the self when they can talk about past events in their lives.
O The realization that the self continues through time may aid in the onset of autobiographical memory.
O The development of autobiographical memory helps children gain an understanding of their roles in their social relationships.


8. All of the following are mentioned in paragraph 4 as ways in which parents help their children understand the structure of narratives EXCEPT
O talking with their children about past events
O telling stories to their children
O having their children repeat stories back to them
O showing their children that they think memories are important


9. According to paragraph 4, the studies of Caucasian American and Korean children suggest which of the following?
O Autobiographical memories develop similarly across all cultures.
O Parents from different cultures tell their children different kinds of stories about the past.
O Children's pleasure in hearing stories varies from culture to culture.
O The kinds of interactions chiIdren have with their parents affect the development of autobiographical memories.


10. According to paragraph 5, what evidence is there that a "theory of mind" is a factor in the development of autobiographical memory?
O Even children who are not aware of their mental states are still able to talk about past events.
O Autobiographicat memory decreases when a chiId's feelings and mental state are upset.
O Older children who are unable to achieve awareness of mental states lack autobiographical memory.
O Children's memory of past events grows once children can answer questions about what it means to know and remember.


11. The organization of the passage can best be described as
O the presentation of an argument followed by the evidence for and against it
O a description of a phenomenon followed by several possible theories about how it develops
O the definition of a psychological term followed by a history of its usage
O an explanation of a process followed by a discussion of its practical applications


12. The passage supports which of the following statements about the development of autobiographical memory?
O It is unlikely that a single factor is responsible for the development of autobiographical memory.
O Jean Piaget was the first psychologist to understand the development of autobiographical memory.
O Understanding the development of autobiographical memory will help psychologists eliminate infant amnesia
O Understanding what it means to remember is the most important factor in the development of autobiographical memory.


13. Look at the four squares [■] that indicate where the following sentence could be added to the passage.
It is unlikely that this memory will be from the first two years of life.
Where would the sentence best fit? Click on a square to add the sentence to the passage.


14. Directions: An introductory sentence for a brief summary of the passage is provided below. Complete the summary by selecting the THREE answer choices that express the most important ideas in the passage. Some sentences do not belong in the summary because they express ideas that are not presented in the passage or are minor ideas in the passage. This question is worth 2 points.
O Although children are capable of simple recognition and recall very early in life, they do not develop the capacity for autobiographical memory until the age of three or four years.
O Verbal skills and familiarity with narrative structures probably aid in the construction of autobiographical memories.
O Children's earliest autobiographical memories are usually about social interactions with parents.
O Research suggests that infantile amnesia occurs in some cultures but not in others and may be linked to children's social experiences.
O The development of autobiographical memory allows children to appreciate the fact that memories are an important part of their cultural experience.
O Children who have acquired a concept of the self and of various mental states are generally able to talk about their own past memories.


1. According to paragraph 1, each of the following is true of Spartina alrerniflora EXCEPT:
O It rarely flowers in salt marshes.
O It grows well in intertidal zones.
O It is commonly referred to as cordgrass.
O It occurs naturally along the Gulf Coast and the Atlantic coast of the United States.


2. According to paragraph 2, a major reason why natural salt marshes are so productive is that they are
O inhabited by long-lived seaweed and marsh grasses that reproduce gradually
O kept clear of excess plant material by the tides
O regularly supplied with high levels of nutrients
O home to a wide variety of different species of grasses


3. Which of the sentences below best express the essential information in the highlighted sentence in the passage? Incorrect choices change the meaning in important ways or leave out essential information.
O Insects feed only on dead cordgrass, while most other marsh inhabitants feed on live cordgrass.
O The marsh is a good habitat for insects, but a relatively poor one for birds and animals.
O Although cordgrass provides food for birds and animals, it gives insects both food and a place to live.
O Cordgrass provides food for numerous insects, birds, and other animals.


4. What is the organizational structure of paragraph 3?
O It makes a general claim about Spartina and then provides specific evidence to defend that claim against objections to the claim.
O It presents a general characterization of Spartina and then describes particular features on which this characterization is based.
O It reports a widely held view about Spartina and then considers evidence both for and against that view.
O It presents a general hypothesis about Spartina and then lists specific evidence that disputes that hypothesis.


5. The word "exceedingly" in the passage is closest in meaning to
O unusually
O dangerously
O surprisingly
O highly


6. According to paragraph 3, one reason that Spanina is able to compete in marsh environments so successfully is its ability to
O alter the substrate in which it grows
O convert sulfides into a usable form of sulfur
O grow and produce seeds while floating on the surface of the water
O produce carbon dioxide with great efficiency


7. Paragraph 4 suggests that where Spanina occurs naturally, an established stand of it will eventually
O create conditions in which it can no longer survive
O get washed away by water flowing through the deep channels that form around it
O become adapted to brackish water
O take over other grass species growing in the area


8. According to paragraph 4, in its natural habitats, Spanina helps estuaries by
O controlling marshland decline
O decreasing the substrate elevation
O reducing the brackishness of the water
O increasing the flow of water into the estuary


9. The word "modifies" in the passage is closest in meaning to
O creates
O changes
O grows on
O breaks down


10. The word "Efforts" in the passage is closest in meaning to
O Laws
O Suggestions
O Attempts
O Failures


11. According to paragraph 5, Spanina negatively affects wildlife in estuaries by
O trapping fish and waterfowl in sediment
O preventing oysters from transplanting successfully
O turning mudflats into high marshes and salt meadows
O expanding the marshy fringes of salt meadows


12. According to paragraph 6, each of the following methods has been used in attempts to control Spanina EXCEPT
O flooding plants
O cutting plants down repeatedly
O applying herbicides
O introducing predatory insects


13. Look at the four squares [Ⓐ] [Ⓑ] [Ⓒ] and [Ⓓ] that indicate where the following sentence could be added to the passage.
Spartina is particularly able to tolerate high salinities because salt glands on the surface of the leaves remove the salt from the plant sap.
Where would the sentence best fit?


14. Directions: An introductory sentence for a brief summary of the passage is provided below. Complete the summary by selecting the THREE answer choices that express the most important ideas in the passage. Some sentences do not belong in the summary because they express ideas that are not presented in the passage or are minor ideas in the passage. This question is worth 2 points.
Spanina alrerniflora, or cordgrass, is the dominant native species in salt marshes along the Atlantic coast and the Gulf Coast of the United States.
O Spartina is very well adapted to conditions in salt marshes, where it plays a valuable role in stabilizing them and making them highly productive marine habitats.
O Spartina expands by growing root systems that float on the water’s surface and descend underground, where it finds the nutrients that it needs to germinate.
O As a result of its spread in Washington State over the past hundred years. Spartina has now become a threat to native oysters by releasing sediments that contain sulfides into the waters.
O The dead leaves of Spartina become food for a wide variety of marine organisms.
O Outside its native regions, Spartina can pose serious problems by turning mudflats into high marshes that are inhospitable to many native fish and birds.
O Spartina has physiological adaptations that allow it to grow in environments where other plants cannot, making it a very strong competitor that is difficult to control once it is established.


1. What can be inferred from paragraphs 1 and 2 about the effect of photography on nineteenth-century painting?
O Photography did not significantly change the way people looked at reality.
O Most painters used the images of the camera obscura in preference to those of the daguerreotype.
O Painters who were concerned with realistic or naturalistic representation were particularly influenced by photography.
O Artists used the long-awaited invention of photography in just the ways they had expected to.


2. The word "duplicated" in the passage is closest in meaning to
O copied
O replaced
O handled
O clarified


3. The phrase "Its general effect" in the passage refers to
O the camera lens
O the calotype
O the etching
O the engraving


4. According to paragraphs 2 and 3 which of the following did the daguerreotype and the calotype have in common?
O They were equally useful for artists.
O They could be reproduced.
O They produced a permanent image
O They were produced on treated paper.


5. The word "authenticity" in the passage is closest in meaning to
O improvement
O practicality
O genuineness
O repetition


6. What point does the author make in paragraph 6?
O Paintings became less expensive because of competition with photography.
O Photography, unlike painting, was a type of portraiture that even ordinary people could afford.
O Every style of painting was influenced by the invention of photography.
O The daguerreotype was more popular than the calotype.


7. The word "reluctant" in the passage is closest in meaning to
O unable
O embarrassed
O unlikely
O unwilling


8. Which of the sentences below best expresses the essential information in the highlighted sentence in the passage? Incorrect choices change the meaning in important ways or leave out essential information.
O Photography did not replace other fine arts because people felt the image looked cheap in relation to the other arts.
O Photography was not considered a true art because people could use it to create many images cheaply.
O Photography was so cheap and readily available that it could be purchased by people who were too poor to purchase fine art.
O Photography not only spread quickly but  also was a cheap art form and so became true successor of fine arts rather than its poor relation.


9. The word "unanticipated" in the passage is closest in meaning to
O indirect
O not expected
O unquestionable
O beneficial


10. The word "accidental" in the passage is closest in meaning to
O surprising
O unintentional
O realistic
O unusual


11. Which of the following is mentioned in paragraph 8 as a benefit that artists derived from photography?
O It inspired artists to use technological themes in their painting.
O It lent prestige to those artists who used photographs as models for paintings
O It provided artists with new types of equipment to speed up the painting process.
O It motivated artists to think about new ways to compose images in their paintings.


12. It can be inferred from paragraph 8 that one effect that photography had on painting was that it
O provided painters with new insights into how humans and animals actually move
O showed that representing movement could be as interesting as portrait art
O increased the appeal of painted portraiture among the wealthy
O influenced artists to improve techniques for painting faster


13. Look at the four squares HI that indicate where the following sentence could be added to the passage
Although his process produced permanent images, each was unique and no reproduction of the picture was possible.
Where would the sentence best fit?


14. Directions: An introductory sentence for a brief summary of the passage is provided below Complete the summary by selecting the THREE answer choices that express the most important ideas in the passage Some sentences do not belong in the summary because they express ideas that are not presented in the passage or are minor ideas in the passage This question is worth 2 points.
Drag your answer choices to tne spaces where they belong. To remove an answer choice, click on it To review the passage, click VIEW TEXT.
The invention of photography had a significant impact on the art of painting in the nineteenth century.
O
O
O
Answer Choices
O For a brief time, artists preferred not to paint natural or realistic images that would have to compete with photographs.
O Before photography, Canaletto had used the camera obscura to project scenes onto a paper or glass plate.
O The photographic processes of Louis Daguerre and William Henry Talbot both made permanent images, but only Talbot's process allowed making multiple copies.
O The work of Eadweard Muybridge and Etienne-Jules Marey established photography both as a science and as an art.
O Photography made accurate images widely and inexpensively available, but this popular success also had the effect of lowering its perceived value in relation to the fine arts.
O Photography eliminated the painted portrait miniature, led artists to accurately represent movement, and affected pictorial composition, but did not replace traditional visual arts.


