1. Which of the following statements about commensalism can be inferred from paragraph 1?
○It excludes interactions between more than two species.
○It makes it less likely for species within a community to survive.
○Its significance to the organization of biological communities is small.
○Its role in the structure of biological populations is a disruptive one.


2. The word derives in the passage is closest in meaning to
○Digests
○Obtains
○Controls
○Discovers


3. According to paragraph 2. which of the following is true of the action of natural selection on hosts and parasites?
○Hosts benefit more from natural selection than parasites do.
○Both aggression in predators and defensive capacities in hosts are favored for species survival.
○The ability to make toxic chemicals enables a parasite to find and isolate its host.
○Larger size equips a parasite to prey on smaller host organisms.


4. The word devastated in the passage is closest in meaning to
○Influenced
○Infected
○strengthened
○destroyed


5. Which of the following can be concluded from the discussion in paragraph 3 about the Australian rabbit population?
○Human intervention may alter the host, the parasite. and the relationship between them.
○The risks of introducing outside organisms into a biological community are not worth the benefits.
○Humans should not interfere in host-parasite relationships.
○Organisms that survive a parasitic attack do so in spite of the natural selection process.


6. According to paragraph 3, all of the following characterize the way natural selection stabilized the Australian rabbit population EXCEPT:
○The most toxic viruses died with their hosts.
○The surviving rabbits were increasingly immune to the virus.
○The decline of the mosquito population caused the spread of the virus to decline.
○Rabbits with specific genetic make-ups were favored.


7. The word inadvertently in the passage is closest in meaning to
○Indefensibly
○Substantially
○Unintentionally
○Partially


8. According to paragraph 5, the relationship between legumes and bacteria benefits the soil by
○adding enriching carbohydrates
○speeding the decay of organic matter
○destroying enzymes that pollute it
○contributing nitrogen to it


9. Which of the sentences below best expresses the essential information in the highlighted sentence in the passage? Incorrect choices change the meaning in important ways or leave out essential information.
○The relationship between flowering plants and pollinators provides pollinators with food and flowers with efficient reproduction.
○In some cases birds obtain food from the seeds that are dispersed in the wind.
○The wind not only helps the flowers distribute their seeds but enables birds to find more food.
○Animals and insects are more effective in distributing pollen and seeds than the wind.


10. According to paragraph 5. which of the following is NOT true of the relationship between the bull's horn acacia tree and the Pseudomyrmex ants?
○Ants defend the host trees against the predatory actions of insects and animals.
○The acacia trees are a valuable source of nutrition for the ants.
○The ants enable the acacia tree to produce its own chemical defenses.
○The ants protect the acacia from having to compete with surrounding vegetation.


11. The word highlights in the passage is closest in meaning to
○Defines
○Emphasizes
○Reflects
○Suggests


12. What is the main purpose of this passage?
○To explain the concept of symbiosis by expanded descriptions of its principal types
○To make a comparison between human relationships and symbiotic interactions in the natural world
○To demonstrate the unforeseen benefits of natural processes that at first seem wholly destructive
○To argue that parasitism is a problem that can be solved by scientific intervention


13. Look at the four squares [■] lthat indicate where the following sentence could be added to the passage.
This massive population began a century earlier as a mere twelve pairs of imported rabbits that reproduced quickly and developed into a major problem.
Where would the sentence best fit?


14. Directions: An introductory sentence for a brief summary of the passage is provided below. Complete the summary by selecting the THREE answer choices that express the most important ideas in the passage. Some sentences do not belong in the summary because they express ideas that are not presented in the passage or are minor ideas in the passage. This question is worth 2 points.


