1. Which of the following statements about annual rainfall can be inferred from paragraph 1?
○Flat desert areas receive more annual rainfall than desert areas with mountains
○Areas that receive more than four inches of rain per year are not considered deserts.
○Many areas receive less than four inches of annual rainfall, but only a few are deserts
○Annual rainfall has no impact on the groundwater resources of desert areas.


2. The word drastically in the passage is closest in meaning to
○obviously
○unfortunately
○rapidly
○severely


3. In paragraph 2. Why does the author mention the Ataturk and other dams in Turkey?
○To contrast the Euphrates River with other exogenous rivers
○To illustrate the technological advances in dam building
○To argue that dams should not be built on the Euphrates River
○To support the idea that international river-basin agreements are needed


4. According to paragraph 2. Which of the following is true of the Nile River?
○The Nile's flow in its desert sections is at its lowest during the dry season
○The Nile's sources are located in one of the most arid zones of the world
○The Nile's annual floods bring fertile silts and water to its lower valley
○The Nile's periodic flooding hinders the growth of some crops


5. The word dwellers in the passage is closest in meaning to
○settlements
○farmers
○tribes
○inhabitants


6. Paragraph 5 supports all of the following statements about the groundwater In deserts EXCEPT:
○The groundwater is consistently found just below the surface
○A small part of the groundwater helps maintain lake levels
○Most of the groundwater is not recharged through surface water
○The groundwater is increasingly used as a source of freshwater


7. The word fractures in the passage is closest in meaning to
○streams
○cracks
○storms
○earthquakes


8. According to paragraph 6. Which of the following statements about aquifers in deserts is true?
○Water from limestone and sandstone aquifers is generally better to drink than water from sand and gravel aquifers
○Sand and gravel aquifers tend to contain less groundwater than limestone or sandstone aquifers
○Groundwater in deep aquifers is more likely to be recharged than groundwater in shallow aquifers
○Sedimentary rocks, because they are porous, are not capable of storing large amounts of groundwater


9. According to paragraph 6. the aquifers called fossil" waters
○contain fossils that are thousands of years old
○took more than 10.000 years to become saturated with water
○have not gained or lost any water for thousands of years
○have been collecting water for the past 10,000 years


10. The word immobile in the passage is closest in meaning to
○enclosed
○permanent
○motionless
○intact


11. The passage supports which of the following statements about water in the desert?
○The most visible forms of water are not the most widespread forms of water in the desert.
○Groundwater in the desert cannot become a source of drinking water but can be used for irrigation.
○Most of the water in the desert is contained in shallow aquifers that are being rapidly recharged.
○Desert areas that lack endogenous or exogenous rivers and streams cannot support life.


12. Look at the four squares [■] that indicate where the following sentence could be added to the passage
These sudden floods provide important water supplies but can also be highly destructive.
Where would the sentence best fit?


13. Directions: Select from the seven sentences below, the two sentences that correctly characterize endogenous rivers and the three sentences that correctly characterize exogenous rivers. Drag each sentence you select into the appropriate column of the table. Two of the sentences will NOT be used. This question is worth 3 points.
Endogenous Rivers
Exogenous Rivers
Answer Choices
○Their water generally comes from groundwater springs.
○Their water is saltier than the water of most other rivers.
○They include some of the world's largest rivers.
○They originate outside the desert.
○They often drain into inland basins and do not reach the sea.
○They contain too much silt to be useful for irrigation
○Their water flow generally varies with the season of the year.


4. The word persistent in the passage is closest in meaning to
○adjusted
○strong
○enduring
○predicted


5. Which of the sentences below best expresses the essential information in the highlighted sentence in the passage? Incorrect choices change the meaning in important ways or leave out essential information.
○Stability, a feature of the biological clock's period, depends on changeable factors such as temperature.
○A major feature of the biological clock is that its period does not change despite significant changes in the environment.
○A factor such as temperature is an important feature in the establishment of the biological clock's period.
○Biological activity is not strongly affected by changes in temperature.


6. According to paragraph 2, which of the following is true about the circadian periods of animals deprived of environmental cues?
○They have the same length as the daily activity cycles of animals that are not deprived of such cues.
○They can vary significantly from day to day.
○They are not the same for all members of a single species.
○They become longer over time.


7. According to paragraph 2, what will an animal experience when its internal rhythms no longer correspond with the daily cycle of the environment?
○Disorientation
○Change in period of the internal rhythms
○Reversal of day and night activities Increased
○Sensitivity to environmental factors


8. In paragraph 2, the author provides evidence for the role of biological clocks by
○listing the daily activities of an animal's cycle: sleeping, feeding, moving, reproducing, metabolizing, and producing enzymes and hormones
○describing the process of establishing the period of a biological clock
○presenting cases in which an animal's daily schedule remained stable despite lack of environmental cues
○contrasting animals whose daily schedules fluctuate with those of animals whose schedules are constant


9. The word duration in the passage is closest in meaning to
○length
○feature
○process
○repetition


10. In paragraph 2, why does the author mention that the period for different horseshoe crabs ranges from 22.2 to 25.5 hours?
○To illustrate that an animal's internal clock seldom has a 24-hour cycle
○To argue that different horseshoe crabs will shift from daytime to nighttime vision at different times
○To illustrate the approximate range of the circadian rhythm of all animals
○To support the idea that external cues are the only factors affecting an animal's periodic behavior


11. The word it in the passage refers to
○ an external cue such as sunrise
○ the daily rhythm of an animal
○ the local solar day
○ a cycle whose period is precisely 24 hours


12. The word sustained in the passage is closest in meaning to
○ intense
○ uninterrupted
○ natural
○ periodic


13. Look at the four squares [■] that indicate where the following sentence could be added to the passage.
Because the internal signals that regulate waking and going to sleep tend to align themselves with these external cues, the external clock appears to dominate the internal clock.
Where would the sentence best fit?


14. Directions: An introductory sentence for a brief summary of the passage is provided below. Complete the summary by selecting the THREE answer choices that express the most important ideas in the passage. Some sentences do not belong in the summary because they express ideas that are not presented in the passage or are minor ideas in the passage. This question is worth 2 points.
The activity of animals is usually coordinated with periodically recurring events in the environment.
Answer Choices
○Most animals survive and reproduce successfully without coordinating their activities to external environmental rhythms.
○The circadian period of an animal's internal clock is genetically determined and basically unchangeable.
○Environmental cues such as a change in temperature are enough to reset an animal's clock.
○Animals have internal clocks that influence their activities even when environmental cues are absent.
○Animals are less affected by large differences between their internal rhythms and the local solar day than are humans
○Because an animal's internal clock does not operate on a 24-hour cycle, environmental stimuli are needed to keep the biological day aligned with the solar day.


