1. The word “championed” in the passage is closest in meaning to
○Changed
○Debated
○Created
○Supported


2. The word “attributes” in the passage is closest in meaning to
○Ascribes
○Leaves
○Limits
○Contrasts


3. According to paragraph 1, theories of the origins of theater
○Are mainly hypothetical
○Are well supported by factual evidence
○Have rarely been agreed upon by anthropologists
○Were expressed in the early stages of theater’s development


4. According to paragraph 1, why did some societies develop and repeat ceremonial actions?
○To establish a positive connection between the members of the society
○To help society members better understand the forces controlling their food supply
○To distinguish their beliefs from those of other societies
○To increase the society’s prosperity


5. The word “this” in the passage refers to
○The acting out of rites
○The divorce of ritual performers from the rest of society
○The separation of myths from rites
○The celebration of supernatural forces


6. The word “autonomous” in the passage is closest in meaning to
○Artistic
○Important
○Independent
○Established


7. According to paragraph 2, what may cause societies to abandon certain rites?
○Emphasizing theater as entertainment
○Developing a new understanding of why events occur.
○Finding a more sophisticated way of representing mythical characters
○Moving from a primarily oral tradition to a more written tradition


8. All of following are mentioned in paragraph 5 as possible reasons that led societies to develop theater EXCEPT:
○Theater allows people to face that they are afraid of.
○Theater gives an opportunity to imagine a better reality.
○Theater is a way to enjoy imitating other people.
○Theater provides people the opportunity to better understand the human mind.


9. Which of the following best describes the organization of paragraph 5?
○The author presents two theories for a historical phenomenon.
○The author argues against theories expressed earlier in the passage.
○The author argues for replacing older theories with a new one.
○The author points out problems with two popular theories.


10. The word “penchant” in the passage is closest in meaning to
○Compromise
○Inclination
○Tradition
○Respect


11. Why does the author mention “comedy”?
○To give an example of early types of theater
○To explain how theater helps a society respond to threats to its welfare
○To help explain why detachment is needed for the development of theater
○To show how theatrical performers become detached from other members of society.


12. Which of the sentences below best expresses the essential information in the highlighted sentence in the passage? Incorrect choices change the meaning in important ways or leave out essential information.
○A society’s rites were more likely to be retained in the oral tradition if its myths were admired for artistic qualities.
○The artistic quality of a myth was sometimes an essential reason for a society to abandon it from the oral tradition.
○Some early societies stopped using myths in their religious practices when rites ceased to be seen as useful for social well-being.
○Myths sometimes survived in a society’s tradition because of their artistic qualities even after they were no longer deemed religiously beneficial.


13. Look at the four squares [█] that indicate where the following sentence could be added to the passage.
To enhance their listener’s enjoyment, storytellers continually make their stores more engaging and memorable.
Where would the sentence best fit? Click on a square to add the sentence to the passage.


14. Directions: An introductory sentence for a brief summary of the passage is provided below. Complete the summary by selecting the THREE answer choices that express the most important ideas in the passage. Some sentences do not belong in the summary because they express ideas that are not presented in the passage or are minor ideas in the passage. This question is worth 2 points.
Anthropologists have developed many theories to help understand why and how theater originated.
Answer choices
○The presence of theater in almost all societies is thought to have occurred because early story tellers traveled to different groups to tell their stores.
○Many theorists believe that theater arises when societies act out myths to preserve social well-being.
○The more sophisticated societies became, the better they could influence desirable occurrences through ritualized theater.
○Some theories of theater development focus on how theater was used by group leaders to group leaders govern other members of society.
○Theater may have come from pleasure humans receive from storytelling and moving rhythmically.
○The human capacities for imitation and fantasy are considered possible reasons why societies develop theater.


