1. Which of the sentences below best expresses the essential information in the highlighted sentence in the passage? Incorrect choices change the meaning in important ways or leave out essential information.
O Many Roman soldiers remained in Britain after conquering it, and their presence had a strong influence.
O The new Roman province of Britain seemed to awaken in the first century A.D. as the local economy improved.
O Camps, fortifications, and economic change contributed to the Roman coquest of Britain.
O With the conquest of Britain by Roman troops, the Roman Empire gained considerable economic strength.


2. According to paragraph 1, the Roman army had the most influence on those areas of Britain that were
O Conquered first
O Near population centers
O Used as military bases
O Rapidly incorporated into the empire


3. According to paragraph 1, what effect did military occupation have on the local population?
O It encouraged more even distribution of the population and the settlement of previously undeveloped territory.
O It created discontent and made continuing military occupation necessary.
O It required local labor to construct forts and feed and exercise the soldiers’ animals.
O It provided local leaders with opportunities to participate in governance.


4. The word “suppress” in the passage is closest in meaning to
O Respond to
O Warn against
O Avoid the impact of
O Stop by force


5. The word “friction” in the passage is closest in meaning to
O Rebellion
O Conflict
O Neglect
O Crime


6. The author mentions “343 men at one fort engaged on tasks like shoemaking, building a bathhouse, operating kilns, digging clay, and working lead” in order to
O Describe the kinds of tasks soldiers were required to perform as punishment for disloyalty or misdeeds
O Illustrate some of the duties assigned to soldiers to keep them busy and well-behaved when not involved in military campaigns
O Provide evidence that Roman soldiers had a negative effect on the local area by performing jobs that had been performed by native workers
O Argue that the soldiers would have been better employed in the construction of infrastructure such as roads


7. The phrase “entitled to” in the passage is closest in meaning to
O Given the right to
O Able to afford to
O Encouraged to
O Required to


8. According to paragraph 3, how did the soldiers meet their needs for goods and services?
O Their needs were met by the army, and all of their economic transactions took place within the fort.
O Most of their needs were met by traveling tradespeople who visit the forts
O During their days off, soldiers traveled to distant towns to make purchases.
O They bought what they needed from the artisans and traders in nearby towns.


9. According to paragraph 4, which of the following is true of Britain’s auxiliary regiments of the Roman army?
O Membership in these regiments reached its highest point during the region of the emperor Hadrian.
O Most of the units recruited in Britain were sent to Morocco and other stations outside Europe.
O Soldiers served in the regiments for many years and after retirement generally stayed where they had been stationed.
O Most of the regiments stationed on the frontier were new units transferred from a neighboring province.


10. According to paragraph 4, all of the following changes could be seen in the frontier garrisons by the later Roman period EXCEPT:
O Membership in the units passed from father to son
O Fewer soldiers were stationed at the forts
O Soldiers usually were not transferred to different locations
O Frontier units became more effective and proficient


11. Why does the author mention that “some of the forts continued in occupation long after Rome ceased to have any formal authority in Britain” ?
O To emphasize the degree to which the stability of the British northern frontier depended on firm military control
O To suggest that the Romans continued to occupy Britain even after they had formally given up the right to do so
O To support the claim that forts continued to serve an import economic function even after they ceased to be of any military use
O To describe one of the things that resulted from frontier garrisons’ becoming part of the local community over a long period


12. The word “circumstances” in the passage is closest in meaning to
O Experiences
O Communities
O Conditions
O Laws


13. Look at the four squares 【】 that indicate where the following sentence could be added to the passage.
One solution was to keep them busy as sources of labor.
Where would the sentence best fit? 【】


14. Directions: An introductory sentence for a brief summary of the passage is provided below. Complete the summary by selecting the THREE answer choices that express the most important ideas in the passage. Some sentence do not belong to the summary because they express ideas that are no presented in the passage or are minor ideas in the passage. This question is worth 2 points.
To review passage. Click View Text.
The Roman army’s occupation of Britain influenced and changed the local population.
O
O
O
Answer Choices
O Although the presence of the army in certain areas caused resentment among the local population, it provided important services such as building infrastructure.
O By recruiting unemployed young men for its auxiliary units, the army made it possible for them to stay in their home towns and provide financial support for their families.
O Large quantities of cash from soldiers’ pay stimulated development, but also drove up prices, making it hard for local residents to afford goods and services.
O Though the army appropriated land and some goods, it also paid for many supplies, stimulating local economic growth.
O The forts contributed to the quality of local crafts by bringing in artisans from distant places who brought with them new skills and techniques.
O Roman soldiers started familiers with local inhabitants, and over the generations, the military community became a stable part of British society.


