1. The word complex in the passage is closest in meaning to
○ delicate
○ elaborate
○ private
○ common


2. According to paragraph 1, which of the following is true of a relationship?
○ It is a structure of associations with many people.
○ It should be studied in the course of a social interaction.
○ It places great demands on people.
○ It develops gradually overtime.


3. The word endowing in the passage is closest in meaning to
○ leaving
○ exposing
○ providing
○ understanding


4. Which of the following can be inferred about instrumental ties from the author's mention of working with competitors in paragraph 2?
○ Instrumental ties can develop even in situations in which people would normally not cooperate.
○ Instrumental ties require as much emotional investment as expressive ties.
○ Instrumental ties involve security, love, and acceptance.
○ Instrumental ties should be expected to be significant.


5. According to paragraph 3, what do sociologists see as the main difference between primary and secondary groups?
○ Primary groups consist of people working together, while secondary groups exist outside of work settings.
○ In primary groups people are seen as means, while in secondary groups people are seen as ends.
○ Primary groups involve personal relationships, while secondary groups are mainly practical in purpose.
○ Primary groups are generally small, while secondary groups often contain more than two people.


6. Which of the following can be inferred from the author's claim in paragraph 3 that primary group relationships sometimes evolve out of secondary group relationships?
○ Secondary group relationships begin by being primary group relationships.
○ A secondary group relationship that is highly visible quickly becomes a primary group relationship.
○ Sociologists believe that only primary group relationships are important to society.
○ Even in secondary groups, frequent communication serves to bring people into close relationships.


7. The phrase size up in the passage is closest in meaning to
○ enlarge
○ evaluate
○ impress
○ accept


8. Which of the sentences below best expresses the essential information in the highlighted sentence in the passage? Incorrect choices change the meaning in important ways or leave out essential information.
○ Sociologists think that cultural patterns establish connections between the individual and the larger society.
○ Sociologists believe that individuals with a sense of oneness bridge the gap between society and primary groups.
○ Sociologists think primary groups contribute to social solidarity because they help maintain a society's cultural patterns.
○ Sociologists believe that the cultural patterns that provide social solidarity arise as bridges from primary groups.


9. This passage is developed primarily by
○ drawing comparisons between theory and practice
○ presenting two opposing theories
○ defining important concepts and providing examples of them
○ discussing causes and their effects


10. The word deviate in the passage is closest in meaning to
○ detract
○ advance
○ select
○ depart


11. According to paragraph 7, why would a social group use shunning?
○ To enforce practice of the kinds of behavior acceptable to the group
○ To discourage offending individuals from remaining in the group
○ To commend and reward the behavior of the other members of the group
○ To decide which behavioral norms should be passed on to the next generation?


12. Look at the four squares [■] that indicate where the following sentence could be added to the passage.
People who do not live alone, for example, tend to make healthier life choices and develop fewer pathologies than people who live by themselves.
Where would the sentence best fit?


13. Directions: Complete the table below by selecting three answer choices that are characteristics of primary groups and two answer choices that are characteristics of secondary groups. This question is worth 3 points.
Primary Groups
Secondary Groups
Answer Choices
○ Developing socially acceptable behavior
○ Working together against competitors
○ Experiencing pressure from outside forces
○ Viewing people as a means to an end
○ Existing for practical purposes
○ Providing meaning for life situations
○ Involving close relationships


