1. Which of the sentences below best expresses the essential information in the highlighted sentence in the passage? Incorrect choices change the meaning in important ways or leave out essential information. 
○ Running water was the best power source for factories since it could keep machines operating continuously but since it was abundant only in Lancashire and Scotland, most mills and factories that were located elsewhere could not be water driven. 
○ The disadvantage of using waterpower is that streams do not necessarily flow in places that are the most suitable for factories which explains why so many water—powered grain and textile mills were located in undesirable places
○ Since machines could be operated continuously only where running water was abundant, grain and textile mills as well as other factories tended to be located only in Lancashire and Scotland. 
○ Running water was the only source of power that was suitable for the continuous operation of machines, but to make use of it factories had to be located where the water was, regardless of whether such locations made sense otherwise.


2. Which of the following best describes the relation of paragraph 2 to paragraph 1?
○Paragraph 2 shows how the problem discussed in paragraph 1 arose.
○Paragraph 2 explains how the problem presented in paragraph 1 came to be solved. 
○Paragraph 2 provides a more technical discussion of the problem introduced in paragraph 1.
○Paragraph 2 shows why the problem discussed in paragraph 1 was especially important to solve.


3. The word exploited in the passage is closest in meaning to
○utilized
○recognized
○examined
○fully understood


4. The word vastly in the passage is closet in meaning to
○quickly
○ultimately
○greatly
○initially


5. According to paragraph 2，the atmospheric engine was slow because
○it had been designed to be used in coal mines
○the cylinder had to cool between each stroke
○it made use of expanding steam to raise the piston in its cylinder
○it could be operated only when a large supply of fuel was available


6. According to paragraph 2, Watt's steam engine differed from earlier steam engines, in each of the following ways, except:
○ It used steam to move a piston in a cylinder.
○ It worked with greater speed.
○ It was more efficient in its use of fuel.
○ It could be used in many different ways.


7. In paragraph 3 the author mentions William Murdoch’s invention of a new form of nighttime illumination in order to
○indicate one of the important developments made possible by the introduction of Watt's steam engine
○make the point that Watt's steam engine was not the only invention of importance to the Industrial Revolution
○illustrate how important coal was as a raw material for the Industrial Revolution
○provide an example of another eighteenth-century invention that used steam as a power source


8. The phrase grew accustomed to in the passage is closest in meaning to
○began to prefer
○ wanted to have
○ became used to
○ insisted on


9. The word retained in the passage is closest in meaning to
○gained
○established
○profited from
○maintained


10. According to paragraph 4, which of the following statements about steam engines is true?
○They were used for the production of paper but not for printing
○By 1800, significant numbers of them were produced outside of Britain
○They were used in factories before they were used to power trains
○They were used in the construction of canals and turnpikes


11. According to paragraph 4, providing a machine to take the place of the horse involved combining which two previously separate ingredients?
○Turnpikes and canals
○Stationary steam engines and wagons with flanged wheels
○Metal rails in roadbeds and wagons capable of carrying heavy loads
○Canal boats and heavily laden wagons


12.Look at the four squares [█] that indicate where the following sentence could be   added to the passage. 
The factories did not have to go to the streams when power could come to the factories. 
Where would the sentence best fit?


13.The Industrial Revolution would not have been possible without a new source of power that was efficient, movable，and continuously available. 
Answer Choices
○In the early eighteenth century, Savery and Newcomen discovered that expanding steam could be used to raise a piston in a cylinder.
○Watt’s steam engine played a leading role in greatly increasing industrial production of all kinds.
○Until the 1830s，Britain was the world’s major producer of steam engines.
○In the mid-1700s James Watt transformed an inefficient steam pump into a fast，flexible，fuel-efficient engine.
○In the 1 790s William Murdoch developed a new way of lighting houses and streets using coal gas.
○The availability of steam engines was a major factor in the development of railroads，which solved a major transportation problem.


