1. The word threatened in the passage is closest in meaning to
○Restricted
○Endangered
○Prevented
○Rejected


2. According to paragraph 3, the loss of natural vegetation has which of the following consequences for soil?
○Increased stony content
○Reduced water absorption
○Increased numbers of spaces in the soil
○Reduced water runoff


3. The word delicate in the passage is closest in meaning to
○Fragile
○Predictable
○Complex
○Valuable


4. According to paragraph 5, in dry periods, border areas have difficulty
○Adjusting to stresses created by settlement
○Retaining their fertility after desertification
○Providing water for irrigating crops
○Attracting populations in search of food and fuel


5. The word progressively in the passage is closest in meaning to
○Openly
○Impressively
○Objectively
○Increasingly


6. According to paragraph 6, which of the following is often associated with raising crops?
○Lack of proper irrigation techniques
○Failure to plant crops suited to the particular area
○Removal of the original vegetation
○Excessive use of dried animal waste


7. The phrase devoid of in the passage is closest in meaning to
○Consisting of
○Hidden by
○Except for
○Lacking in


8. According to paragraph 9, the ground’s absorption of excess water is a factor in desertification because it can
○Interfere with the irrigation of land
○Limit the evaporation of water
○Require more absorption of air by the soil
○Bring salts to the surface


9. All of the following are mentioned in the passage as contributing to desertification EXCEPT
○Soil erosion
○Global warming
○Insufficient irrigation
○The raising of livestock


10. Which of the sentences below best expresses the essential information in the highlighted sentence in the passage?
Incorrect choices change the meaning in important ways or leave out essential information.
○Desertification is a significant problem because it is so hard to reverse and affects large areas of land and great numbers of people.
○Slowing down the process of desertification is difficult because of population growth that has spread over large areas of land.
○The spread of deserts is considered a very serious problem that can be solved only if large numbers of people in various countries are involved in the effort.
○Desertification is extremely hard to reverse unless the population is reduced in the vast areas affected.


11. It can be inferred from the passage that the author most likely believes which of the following about the future of desertification?
○Governments will act quickly to control further desertification.
○The factors influencing desertification occur in cycles and will change in the future.
○Desertification will continue to increase.
○Desertification will soon occur in all areas of the world.


12. Look at the four squares [■] that indicate where the following sentence can be added to the passage.
This economic reliance on livestock in certain regions makes large tracts of land susceptible to overgrazing.
Where would the sentence best fit?
○Growing human populations and the agricultural demands that come with such growth have upset the ecological balance in some areas and led to the spread of deserts.
○As periods of severe dryness have become more common, failures of a number of different crops have increased.
○Excessive numbers of cattle and the need for firewood for fuel have reduced grasses and trees, leaving the land unprotected and vulnerable.
○Extensive irrigation with poor drainage brings salt to the surface of the soil, a process that reduces water and air absorption.
○Animal dung enriches the soil by providing nutrients for plant growth.
○Grasses are generally the dominant type of natural vegetation in semiarid lands.


