1. Why does the author call the Mayan homeland both a “seasonal tropical forest” and "seasonal desert”?
○To illustrate how the climate of the Mayan homeland varied from region to region
○To explain how the climate of the Mayan homeland is similar to that of a jungle or tropical rainforest
○To emphasize the vast size of the area that comprised the Mayan homeland in ancient times
○To make the point that the Mayan homeland is climatically more complex than is generally assumed


2. Which of the following is NOT mentioned in paragraph 2 as a difference between the northern and southern Yucatan Peninsula?
○The annual rainfall was greater in the south.
○The population density was lower in the north.
○Agricultural productivity was greater in the south
○Rainfall was more unpredictable and variable in the south.


3. Which of the following statements about ancient and modem agriculture in the Yucatan Peninsula is supported by paragraph 2?
○Modern agricultural methods have solved many of the ancient problems of farming in the Yucatan Peninsula.
○Ancient Mayan farmers may have been somewhat more successful at farming in the Yucatan Peninsula than farmers are today.
○Farming today is easier than in the past because environmental changes in the Yucatan Peninsula have increased available rainfall
○The Yucatan soils in which ancient farmers worked were richer, more productive, and thicker than they are today.


4. The word "paradoxically” in the passage is closest in meaning to
○usually
○surprisingly
○understandably
○predictably


5. The phrase “The likely explanation" in the passage refers to the explanation for why
○the southern Maya areas received more rainfall than the northern areas
○modern archaeologists have difficulty understanding ancient droughts
○water problems were most severe in the wet south
○land surface in the south is so high above the water table


6. Which of the following statements about the availability of water in the Mayan homeland is supported by paragraph 3?
○The construction of wells was an uncommon practice in both the north and the south because it was too difficult to dig through the karst.
○In most areas in the north and the south, rainwater was absorbed directly into the porous karst.
○The water table was an important resource for agriculture in both the north and the south of the Yucatan Peninsula,
○The lack of surface water in both the north and the south was probably due to the fact that most of it was quickly used up for agricultural purposes.


7. According to paragraph 3, why was the southern Mayan homeland hard to farm?
○The presence of numerous sinkholes and wells interfered with farming.
○Southern soil lacked the depth crops needed for growth.
○Underground water was too far below the surface to reach.
○The presence of karst caused frequent flooding.
○Southern Maya populations obtained the water they needed for the dry season by collecting and storing rainwater in sealed depressions.
○The Maya are credited with creating methods for modifying natural rainwater and storing it.
○Leaks in the karst caused difficulties in the creation of reservoirs, which were needed to store water for the dry season.
○Southern Mayans were more successful at collecting rain than storing it during dry seasons.


9.What can be inferred from paragraph 4 about how residents of Tikal met their needs for water and food during most periods of drought?
○They depended upon water and food that had been stored for use during the dry season.
○They obtained drinking water and water for crop irrigation from Coba dikes.
○They located their population centers near a lake where water was available for dnnking and watering crops.
○They moved locations every 18 months to find new croplands and water sources.


10. The word "prolonged" in the passage is closest in meaning to
○unusual
○unexpected
○extended
○disastrous


11. The word "exhausted" in the passage is closest in meaning to
○used up
○reduced
○wasted
○relied upon


12. Look at the four squares [■] that indicate where the following sentence could be added to the passage.
The difference between the two climates challenged the Maya who had to deal with both.
Where would the sentence best fit? Click on a square to add the sentence to the passage.


13.Directions: Select from the seven phrases below the phrases that correctly characterize the southern Mayan homeland and the phrases that correctly characterize the northern Mayan homeland. Drag each phrase you select into the appropriate column of the table. Two of the phrases will NOT be used. This question is worth 3 points.
Southern Mayan homeland
Northern Mayan homeland
Answer Choices
○ City of Tikal
○ Predictable rainfall
○ High above water table
○ Used reservoirs
○ Obtained water from wells
○ Dramatically improved corn crops
○ Had comparatively thin layer of soil


