1. The word "location' in the passage is closest in meaning to
O sight
O sake
O success
O place


2. Which of the following can be inferred from paragraph 1 about the large meteor that entered Earths atmosphere on February 8, 1969?
O It was almos ten miles wide.
O It was the biggest meteor ever to hit Mexico.
O It weighed more than two tons.
O It broke into more pieces than most meteors do.


3. Which of the sentences below best expresses the essential information in the highlighted sentence in the passage? Incorrect choices change the meaning in important ways or leave out essential information.
O Allende meteorites were formed when constituents of the interstellar cloud of gas and dust got trapped inside small, roughly spherical objects and these objects became bound together in a dark gray matrix.
O Inside Allende meteorites is a dark gray matrix that binds together small spherical or irregular objects formed from the interstellar cloud of gas and dust out of which the solar system was made.
O By breaking open Allende meteorites, scientists were able to find out what the solar nebula was made of.
O Allende meteorites were filled with material formed almost entirelyfrom interstellar gas and dust.


4. The word "allusion" in the passage is closest in meaning to
O addition
O modification
O resemblance
O reference


5. The word "enigmatic" in the passage is closest in meaning to
O dangerous
O mysterious
O interesting
O surprising


6. According to paragraph 3, what does the presence of grains inside some of the chondrules indicate?
O The chondrules were formed of silicate material.
O The chondrules were formed at high temperatures and then cooled rapidly.
O The grains were formed in huge areas of the solar nebula
O The grains were formed after the chondrules were fused together into chondrites.


7. According to paragraph 4, all of the following are true about the minerals found in the refractory inclusions EXCEPT:
O These minerals are among the most resistant to melting of all the major elements in the solar nebula.
O These minerals are believed to be some of the first elements to have condensed out of the solar nebula.
O These minerals are among the least commonly found elements on Earth.
O These elements occur in the order that scientists would have predicted.


8. The word "pristine" in the passage is closest in meaning to
O pure
O solid
O ordinary
O trapped


9. According to paragraph 5, which of the following is indicated by studies of the mixture holding the inclusions together?
O Large amounts of this material were formed by condensation or melting in the nebula.
O This material contains more iron and iron sulfide than had previously been thought.
O This material is very similarto the material from which the refractory inclusions are made
O The grains in this material are made from the same elements as chondrules are.


10. In paragraph 6, why does the author mention that "the Sun has many more atoms of any element, say iron, than does a meteorite specimen"?
O To show how difficult it is to compare the composition of a meteorite with that of the Sun
O To explain why a comparison of the compositions of a meteorite and of the Sun has to be done in terms of ratios of elements
O To identify the most common element in both the Sun and meteorite specimens
O To emphasize how much largerthe Sun is than any meteorite specimen is


11. According to paragraph 6, the composition of chondritic meteorites differs from the composition of the Sun primarily in
O containing nebular matter
O containing many fewer atoms of iron
O the relative amount of volatile elements
O the ratio of iron to silicon


12. According to paragraph 6, what is the significance of the similarity in composition between chondrites and the Sun?
O It indicates what the matter from which planets were formed was probably like.
O It may explain howthe Sun originally developed.
O It helps scientists estimate the variations in the chemical composition of different meteors.
O It suggests that most meteorites may contain large quantities of volatile elements.


13. Look at the four squares [■] that indicate where the following sentence could be added to the passage
It is therefore still unclear if all inclusions were formed in the same way.
Where would the sentence best fit?


14. Directions: An introductory sentence for a brief summary of the passage is provided below. Complete the summary by selecting the THREE answer choices that express the most important ideas in the passage. Some sentences do not belong in the summary because they express ideas that are not presented in the passage or are minor ideas in the passage. This question is worth 2 points.
Studies of the Allende meteorite provided information about the composition of chondritic meteorites and their possible origin.
O
O
O
O When Allende entered Earth's atmosphere, it broke into thousands of pieces called chondrites because they look like glassy, black seeds.
O The mineral content of chondrules suggests that they were probably formed in isolated regions of the nebula that remained much hotter than the rest.
O Chondrules are tiny, millimeter-sized drops of silicate materials that probably formed when lumps of nebular dust were fused at extremely high temperatures and then quickly cooled.
O Irregularly shaped inclusions in Allende are composed of minerals that are resistant to melting and are believed to be the earlest minerals to have condensed out of the nebula.
O The matrix that holds the chondrules and inclusions together in Allende consists mainly of grains of nebular dust that were trapped inside the meteor before they could be melted.
O Except for being depleted in volatile elements, chondritic meteorites are probably very similar in composition to the matter from which planets were assembled.


1.  The word “enormous” in the passage is closest in meaning to
○ growing
○ frightening
○ very large
○ strictly controlled


2. The word “surpass” in the passage is closest in meaning to
○ remain below
○ be higher than
○ add to
○ come close to


3.  According to paragraph 2, how soon heat from a warmed house reaches the outside air greatly affected by
○ how well the house is heated
○ how well the house is insulated
○ how many adults live in the house
○ how much sunshine the house receives


4. According to paragraph 3, each of the following contributes to making urban areas warmer than the surrounding countryside EXCEPT
○ the fuel burned by motor vehicles
○ the capacity to store heat of the materials used in building a city
○ the easy flow of heat into the ground in city areas covered by vegetation
○ the repeated reflection of solar radiation back and forth among buildings


5. According to paragraph 3, why do materials in the countryside have a lower heat capacity than materials in cities do?
○ The countryside in the Sun is the only important source of heat.
○ Construction materials in the city are not as good at keeping buildings warm as they are in the countryside.
○ In the countryside the solar heat that flows into the ground flows out again quickly.
○ Countryside vegetation prevents heat from being trapped in the ground.


6. How is paragraph 3 organized?
○ It describes two factors that contribute to the increased heat of cities and then provides two causes for the second factor.
○ It describes two causes discovered in an early analysis of the increased heat of cities.
○ It describes two factors that contribute to the increased heat of cities and two other factors that work against it.
○ It describes two well-established causes of the increased heat of cities and other two whose roles are less well understood.


7.The word “configuration” in the passage is closest in meaning to
○ location
○ history
○ temperature
○ shape


8. According to paragraph 4, what can explain the substantial differences in temperature between one area and other within a well-developed heat island?
○ The overall size of the heat island that includes the two reasons
○ The intensify of the heat island that includes the two areas
○ Differences between the two areas in the general level of activity, including traffic
○ Differences between the two areas in the insulation materials used in construction


9. Paragraph 4 supports the idea that a city’s heat-island intensity would increase if
○ the city went into an economic decline and lost population
○ the city’s economy shifted from heavy industry to health care and education
○ there was an upward trend in the average age of the city’s residents
○ repair work on the streets slowed traffic throughout the city


10. According to paragraph 5, surfaces in the city are generally drier than surfaces in the countryside between periods of rainfall because
○ in the city gentle rain is much more common than heavy rain
○ high temperatures in the city speed up the process of evaporation
○ in the city there are longer periods of dry weather between episodes of rain
○ rainwater in the city cannot soak into most surfaces and quickly runs off


11. The word “modified” in the passage is closest in meaning to
○ changed
○ blocked
○ increased
○ weakened


12. According to paragraph 5, which of the following is a factor responsible for the greater air turbulence in urban environments?
○ The high speed of the winds travelling above cities
○ The greater rainfall totals recorded in cities
○ Attempts to reduce urban air pollution
○ The effects of tall buildings on airflow


13. Look at the four squares [■] that indicate where the following sentence could be added to the passage.
Another possibility is for the heat island to be stretched along the course of major rivers, since large waterways typically have a warming effect on the air directly above them.
Where would the sentence best fit?


14. Directions: An introductory sentence for a brief summary of the passage is provided below. Complete the summary by selecting the THREE answer choices that express the most important ideas in the passage. Some answer choices do not belong in the summary because they express ideas that are not presented in the passage or are minor ideas in the passage. This question is worth 2 points.
○ The amount of heat produced in a city will be reduced when cities use the heat from cars to warm homes.
○ The built-up landscape of the city readily becomes a heat island, with greater water runoff and special climatic conditions such as low relative humidity and increased air turbulence.
○ The materials from which cities are built and the effects of pollution domes help make urban areas warmer than rural areas.
○ Cities tend to be warmer than their surrounding areas, in part because they produce heat by burning fuel for heating, powering vehicles, and industrial production.
○ In most cities, the heating that results from solar radiation is intensified by carbon dioxide, a gas that is present at very high concentrations in cities’ atmospheres.
○ During periods without rainfall, the air in cities heats up and causes winds to slow down, with the result that pollutants are not dispersed.
TPO 23-2


1. By indicating that production was in line with market demands the author means that Dutch farmers were able to
○ exceed other European countries in agricultural production
○ produce crops mat were similar to those popular in other European countries
○ supply sufficient quantities of the agricultural products that the Dutch population wanted to buy
○ satisfy the demand for high quality agricultural products from the Baltic region


2. Which of the sentences below best expresses the essential information in the highlighted sentence in the passage? Incorrect choices change the meaning in important ways or leave out essential information.
○ Buying imported grain led to the Dutch demanding that other foodstuffs and consumer goods be imported.
○ Because the Dutch were able to import inexpensive grain, they had money available to create a demand for other food products and consumer goods.
○ Keeping the price of grain low was a primary goal of the Dutch at a time when they could not produce enough grain to provide for all their needs.
○ The demand for other foodstuffs and consumer goods forced the Dutch to import grain and other products at a time when maintaining low prices was especially important.


3. The phrase “Apart from” in the passage is closest in meaning to
○ Besides
○ Despite
○ As a result of
○ Instead of


4. According to paragraph 2, the increases demands on Dutch agriculture made by urban consumers had which of the following results?
○ Seasonal shortages of the products consumers most wanted
○ Increased production of high-quality grain products
○ Raised prices charged by peasants to urban consumers
○ Different ways of caring for dairy-producing animals


5. The word “consumption” in the passage is closest in meaning to
○ sale
○ storage
○ exportation
○ utilization


6. According to paragraph 3, the modernization of agriculture in the Netherlands was evident in all of the following ways EXCEPT:
○ The production of fruits and vegetables became a commercial venture.
○ The wealthy stopped growing fruits and vegetables in their gardens and grew flowers instead.
○ Horticultural produce was transported to city markets by water.
○ Many more people were able to afford to eat fresh fruits and vegetables.
7. Select the TWO answer choices that, according to paragraph 4, indicate two methods people used to increase the productivity of their land. To receive credit you must select TWO answers
○ They planted different crops in different sections of the farm each year.
○ They used improved irrigation methods to increase the yield of crops.
○ They increased the use of fertilizers to supply more nutrients to plants.
○ They used new horticultural practices to produce different varieties of plants in the same section of the farm.


8. The word “they” in the passage refers to
○ merchants
○ hectares
○ windmills
○ drainage pumps


9. According to paragraph 5, which of the following was an important reason why land-reclamation projects in the first half of the seventeenth century proceeded rapidly?
○ Windmills became powerful enough to run drainage pumps efficiently.
○ Merchants invested large amounts of money in reclamation.
○ High interest rates discouraged people from buying land already available.
○ Reclaimed land was much more suitable for agriculture than the existing land.


10. The word “legendary” in the passage is closest in meaning to
○ continuous
○ well documented
○ famous
○ expensive


11. The word “astonishing” in the passage is closest in meaning to
○ incredible
○ unfortunate
○ predicted
○ evident


12. Which of the following best describes the organization of the passage?
○ A presentation of a theory and the evidence in favor of it
○ A general statement followed by examples and relevant details
○ A analysis of a problem and its solution
○ A series of statements leading to a conclusion


13. Look at the four squares [■] that indicate where the following sentence could be added to the passage
Some villages specialized in growing cabbages and carrots; others grew onions, mustard, and coriander; and still others produced fruit and cultivated trees in nurseries.
Where would the sentence best fit?


14. Direction: An introductory sentence for a brief summary of the passage is provides below. Complete the summary by selecting the THREE answer choices that express the most important ideas in the passage. Some sentences presented in the passage or are minor ideas in the passage. This question is worth 2 points.
○ The Baltic region produced large quantities of grain for export to other regions, including the Netherlands.
○ The richest people grew enough fruits and vegetables to supply the entire country with fresh produce.
○ An agricultural crisis that began in Europe did not affect Dutch land-reclamation projects.
○ Specialization in dairy farming, industrial crops, and horticulture allowed the Dutch to be more productivehan some other regions in Europe.
○ Land reclamation and improvement allowed the Dutch to meet demands for their agricultural products.
○ Because the Dutch had specialized their agricultural output they were less susceptible to the crisis that Europe experienced from the beginning of the century.


