1. The word "momentous" in the passage is closest in meaning to
O numerous
O regular
O very important
O very positive


2. Major climatic changes occurred by the end of the Ice Age in all of the following geographic areas EXCEPT
O temperate regions of Asia
O southwestern Asia
O North America
O Europe


3. The phrase "this remarkable change" in the passage refers to
O warming at the end of the Ice Age
O shifts in mountain snow lines
O the movement of people from farms to villages
O a dramatic increase in the population


4. The word "exploited" in the passage is closest in meaning to
O explored
O utilized
O inhabited
O improved


5. Why does the author mention "seashells, stone bowls, and artifacts made of obsidian"?
O To give examples of objects obtained through trade with other societies
O To illustrate the kinds of objects that are preserved in a cool climate
O To provide evidence that the organization of work was specialized
O To give examples of the artistic ability of local populations


6. The word "cramped" in the passage is closest in meaning to
O primitive
O secure
O extended
O confined


7. Paragraph 3 suggests which of the following about the settlement of Abu Hureyra?
O The settlement was inhabited by small groups of people from nearby areas.
O Small bands of people migrated in and out of the settlement.
O The location of the settlement made permanent development difficult.
O The easy availability of food led to the growth of the settlement.


8. The word "shifts" in the passage is closest in meaning to
O effects
O similarities
O changes
O exceptions


9. Paragraph 4 suggests that the people of Abu Hureyra abandoned their long-established settlement because
O the inhabitants had cleared all the trees from the forests
O wild cereal grasses took over pistachio and oak forests
O people wanted to explore new areas
O lack of rain caused food shortages


10. According to paragraph 5, after 7000 B.C. the settlement of Abu Hureyra differed from earlier settlements at that location in all of the following EXCEPT
O the domestication of animals
O the intensive hunting of gazelle
O the size of the settlement
O the design of the dwellings


11. The word "abruptly" in the passage is closest in meaning to
O informally
O briefly
O suddenly
O surprisingly


12. Which of the sentences below best expresses the essential information in the highlighted sentence in the passage? Incorrect choices change the meaning in important ways or leave out essential information.
O In many areas besides Abu Hureyra, complex factors led to new economies including the herding of domestic stock.
O In 'Ain Ghazal and Syria, domestic stock was more important than it was at Abu Hureyra.
O Once early methods of herding animals improved, new economies were adopted.
O Many complex theories attempt to explain the early domestication of animals.


13. Look at the four squares [■] that indicate where the following sentence can be added to the passage.
One of the major effects was the rapid growth of the human population itself.
Where would the sentence best fit?


14. Directions: An introductory sentence for a brief summary of the passage is provided below. Complete the summary by selecting the THREE answer choices that express the most important ideas in the passage. Some answer choices do not belong in the summary because they express ideas that are not presented in the passage or are minor ideas in the passage. This question is worth 2 points.
At the end of the Ice Age, patterns of human settlement changed in southwestern Asia.
O
O
O
Answer Choices
O Wild cereals, grasses, and nuts were exchanged for exotic objects.
O Changes in climatic conditions made southwestern Asia highly beneficial to human occupants.
O Social organization in Abu Hureyra decreased as the population grew.
O The favorable location of Abu Hureyra kept the city from experiencing hardship during drought years.
O Within 2,000 years, populations in southwestern Asia greatly increased in number.
O In rich, fertile areas permanent societies evolved to a high level of complexity.


