1. The word Consequently in the passage is closest in meaning to
○ Therefore
○ Additionally
○ Nevertheless
○ Moreover


2. In paragraph 1, the experiment on the fungus Neurospora is mentioned to illustrate
○ the existence of weekly periods of activity as well as daily ones
○ the finding of evidence that organisms have internal clocks
○ the effect of space on the internal clocks of organisms
○ the isolation of one part of an organism's cycle for study


3. According to paragraph 1, all the following are generally assumed to be true EXCEPT:
○ It is important for animals' daily activities to be coordinated with recurring events in their environment.
○ Eukaryotes have internal clocks.
○ The relationship between biological function and environmental cycles is a topic of intense research.
○ Animals' daily rhythms are more dependent on external cues than on internal clocks.


4. The word persistent in the passage is closest in meaning to
○ adjusted
○ strong
○ enduring
○ predicted


5. Which of the sentences below best expresses the essential information in the highlighted sentence in the passage? Incorrect choices change the meaning in important ways or leave out essential information.
○ Stability, a feature of the biological clock's period, depends on changeable factors such as temperature.
○ A major feature of the biological clock is that its period does not change despite significant changes in the environment.
○ A factor such as temperature is an important feature in the establishment of the biological clock's period.
○ Biological activity is not strongly affected by changes in temperature.


6. According to paragraph 2, which of the following is true about the circadian periods of animals deprived of environmental cues?
○ They have the same length as the daily activity cycles of animals that are not deprived of such cues.
○ They can vary significantly from day to day.
○ They are not the same for all members of a single species.
○ They become longer over time.


7. According to paragraph 2, what will an animal experience when its internal rhythms no longer correspond with the daily cycle of the environment?
○ Disorientation
○ Change in period of the internal rhythms
○ Reversal of day and night activities Increased
○ Sensitivity to environmental factors


8. In paragraph 2, the author provides evidence for the role of biological clocks by
○ listing the daily activities of an animal's cycle: sleeping, feeding, moving, reproducing, metabolizing, and producing enzymes and hormones
○ describing the process of establishing the period of a biological clock
○ presenting cases in which an animal's daily schedule remained stable despite lack of environmental cues
○ contrasting animals whose daily schedules fluctuate with those of animals whose schedules are constant


9. The word duration in the passage is closest in meaning to
○ length
○ feature
○ process
○ repetition


10. In paragraph 2, why does the author mention that the period for different horseshoe crabs ranges from 22.2 to 25.5 hours?
○ To illustrate that an animal's internal clock seldom has a 24-hour cycle
○ To argue that different horseshoe crabs will shift from daytime to nighttime vision at different times
○ To illustrate the approximate range of the circadian rhythm of all animals
○ To support the idea that external cues are the only factors affecting an animal's periodic behavior


11. The word it in the passage refers to
○ an external cue such as sunrise
○ the daily rhythm of an animal
○ the local solar day
○ a cycle whose period is precisely 24 hours


12. The word sustained in the passage is closest in meaning to
○ intense
○ uninterrupted
○ natural
○ periodic


13. Look at the four squares [■] that indicate where the following sentence could be added to the passage.
Because the internal signals that regulate waking and going to sleep tend to align themselves with these external cues, the external clock appears to dominate the internal clock.
14. Directions: An introductory sentence for a brief summary of the passage is provided below. Complete the summary by selecting the THREE answer choices that express the most important ideas in the passage. Some sentences do not belong in the summary because they express ideas that are not presented in the passage or are minor ideas in the passage. This question is worth 2 points.
○ Most animals survive and reproduce successfully without coordinating their activities to external environmental rhythms.
○ The circadian period of an animal's internal clock is genetically determined and basically unchangeable.
○ Environmental cues such as a change in temperature are enough to reset an animal's clock.
○ Animals have internal clocks that influence their activities even when environmental cues are absent.
○ Animals are less affected by large differences between their internal rhythms and the local solar day than are humans
○ Because an animal's internal clock does not operate on a 24-hour cycle, environmental stimuli are needed to keep the biological day aligned with the solar day.


