1. According to paragraph 1, all of the following statements about architecture are true EXCEPT:
○Architecture is visual art.
○Architecture reflects the cultural values of its creators.
○Architecture has both artistic and scientific dimensions.
○Architecture has an indirect effect on life.


3. Which of the sentences below best expresses the essential information in the highlighted sentence in the passage? Incorrect choices change the meaning in important ways or leave out essential information.
○Unchanging physical laws have limited the size and strength of buildings that can be made with materials discovered long ago. ○Building materials have changed in order to increase architectural size and strength, but physical laws of structure have not changed.
○When people first started to build, the structural methods used to provide strength and size were inadequate because they were not based on physical laws.
○Unlike building materials, the methods of support used in architecture have not changed over time because they are based on physical laws.


4. The word “devised” in the passage is closest in meaning to
○Combined
○Created
○Introduced
○Suggested


5. The word “integral” is closet in meaning to
○Essential
○Variable
○Practical
○Independent


6. According to paragraph 4, which of the following is true about materials used in the construction of buildings?
○Because new building materials are hard to find, construction techniques have changed very little from past generations.
○The availability of suitable building materials no longer limits the types of structures that may be built.
○The primary building materials that are available today are wood, stone, and brick.
○Architects in earlier times did not have enough building materials to enclose large spaces.


7. In paragraph 4, what does the author imply about modern buildings?
○They occupy much less space than buildings constructed one hundred years ago.
○They are not very different from the building of a few generations ago.
○They weigh less in relation to their size than buildings constructed one hundred years ago.
○They take a long time to build as a result of their complex construction methods.


8. Which of the following correctly characterizes the relationship between the human body and architecture that is described in paragraph5?
○Complex equipment inside buildings is the one element in modern architecture that resembles a component of the human body.
○The components in early buildings were similar to three particular elements of the human body.
○Modern buildings have components that are as likely to change as the human body is.
○In general, modern buildings more closely resemble the human body than earlier buildings do.


9. The word “arduous” in the passage is closest in meaning to
○Difficult
○Necessary
○Skilled
○Shared


10. Why does the author include a description of how the “doorways and windows” of Machu Picchu were constructed?
○To indicate that the combined skeletons and skins of the stone buildings of Machu Picchu were similar to igloos and adobe structures
○To indicate the different kinds of stones that had to be cut to build Machu Picchu
○To provide an illustration of the kind of construction that was required before arches were invented
○To explain how ancient builders reduced the amount of time necessary to construct buildings from stone.
○The Romans were the first people to use the stone arch.
○The invention of the arch allowed new architectural forms to be developed.
○The arch worked by distributing the structural of a building toward the center of the arch.
○The Romans followed earlier practices in their use of arches.


12．Look at the four squares [█] that indicate where the following sentence could be added to the passage.
However, some modern architectural designs, such as those using folded plates of concreter or air-inflated structures, are again unifying skeleton and skin.
Where would the sentence best fit? Click on a square to add the sentence to the passage.
○Architects seek to create buildings that are both visually appealing and well suited for human use.
○Over the course of the history of building, innovations in material and methods of construction have given architects ever greater freedom to express themselves.
○Throughout history buildings have been constructed like human bodies, needing distinct “organ” systems in order to function.
○Both clients and architects are responsible for the mediocre designs of some modern buildings.
○Modern buildings tend to lack the beauty of ancient stone buildings such as those of Machu Picchu.
○The discovery and use of the arch typifies the way in which architecture advances by developing more efficient types of structures.


