1. The word “infrequent” in the passage is closest in meaning to
○ puzzling
○ uncommon
○ questionable
○ undocumented


2. According to paragraph 1, the twentieth-century approach to studying Australian rock art was different from earlier approaches because the twentieth-century approach
○ recognized that many different groups of Aborigines created Australian rock art
○ concentrated on a limited range of Aboriginal rock art
○ examined Aboriginal art from an Aboriginal rather than from a European perspective
○ focused more intensely on understanding and documenting rock art


3. The word “relatively” in the passage is closest in meaning to
○ completely
○ comparatively
○ apparently
○ particularly


4. The word “discern” in the passage is closest in meaning to
○ indicate
○ apply
○ identify
○ repeat


5. The word “revised” in the passage is closest in meaning to
○ discussed
○ raised
○ challenged
○ changed


6. Which of the sentences below best expresses the essential information in the highlighted sentence in the passage? Incorrect choices change the meaning in important ways or leave ways or leave out essential information
○ The oldest rock art sites have simpler motifs than the best known sites of Panaramitee North.
○ Because motifs primarily associated with the Panaramitee region are common in the oldest sites the term Panaramitee style has become the general term for rock art of this type.
○ Because the Panaramitee style is so common in the older sites, researchers have described it most extensively.
○ The motifs carved in the rocky surface of the Panaramitee region make up the oldest form of rock art discovered in Australia.


7. According to paragraph 4, researchers have organized and structured Australian rock art by distinguishing between which of the following?
○ Images found at Panaramitee North and images found in other parts of Australia
○ Images found in a particular type of rock layer and images found in other types of rock layers
○ Images that have geometric elements and images that have figurative elements
○ Images that are typically found and image that are rarely found


8. According to paragraph 4, all of the following are signs of the great age of the Panaramitee engravings EXCEPT:
○ The engravings consisted of simple animal drawings.
○ The engravings were covered with a layer of a substance known as “desert varnish”.
○ Local Aborigines who were asked knew nothing about the origin of the engravings.
○ Geologic changes had occurred after the engravings were made.


9. Why does the author include information about Tasmania in paragraph 4?
○ To provide evidence that the Panaramitee style is widespread and of great age
○ To prove that Aboriginal Australians could not have made the carvings in Tasmania
○ To indicate how researchers have determined how long ago Tasmania separated from the mainland
○ To illustrate the importance of geometric rock art to tourism in Tasmania


10. According to paragraph 5, the complex figurative style differs from the geometric style in that the complex figurative style
○ varies significantly from region to region
○ is more meaningful
○ appears on only a few types of rocks
○ has changed little overtime


11. According to paragraph 5, Lesley Maynard made which of the following suggestions about Australian rock art?
○ There were a pattern of human figures being represented in a more complex style than animal figures.
○ Australian archaeology should concentrate on determining the sequence of styles that led up to the Panaramitee style.
○ The great antiquity of Australian rock art would probably make it impossible to determine the ages of the various styles found in rock art.
○ The geometric style of Australian rock art was replaced by increasingly complex figurative styles.


12. In paragraph 5, the author indicates that twentieth century art has shown that naturalism does not necessarily follow abstraction in some kind of predetermined sequence in order to
○ emphasize that it may not be possible to determine what the figures in ancient rock art represent
○ suggest a reply to those who have questioned Maynard’s interpretation of the sequence of Australian rock art
○ provide a counterexample to Maynard’s interpretation of the sequence of Australian rock art
○ indicate that twentieth century art is more advanced than ancient rock art


13. Look at the four squares [■] that indicate where the following sentence could be added to the passage
While a great deal of information exists, the answers to these questions are not yet definitive.
Where would the sentence best fit?


14. Direction: An introductory sentence for a brief summary of the passage is provides below. Complete the summary by selecting the THREE answer choices that express the most important ideas in the passage. Some sentences presented in the passage or are minor ideas in the passage. This question is worth 2 points.
○ Late nineteenth century studies of Aboriginal rock art railed to recognize that a variety of styles existed.
○ The extreme age of the earliest Aboriginal rock art has been established but the interpretation of rock art images is still debated.
○ A sequence from geometric to more representative art fits many sites but does not necessarily indicate a progression from simple to complex meaning.
○ In determining the way in which Australian rock art was organized, archaeologists have made little distinction between geometric and figurative elements.
○ Older examples of rock art consist of simple, repeated geometric patterns while later rock art includes figures and animals.
○ Aboriginal informants were able to explain the meanings of ancient rock art symbols.
○the negative effects of overland flow, rain, and evaporation on river water levels
○water that a lake loses to outflowing rivers, to the lake bed, and to evaporation
○the importance of rivers to the maintenance of lake water levels
○the information given about ways that water can enter or exit a lake
○results
○increases
○resources
○savings
○Heavy rain accounts for most of the water that enters into lakes.
○Rainfall replaces approximately the amount of water lost through evaporation.
○Overland flow into lakes is reduced by the presence of forests.
○Seepage has a smaller effect on water level than any other input.
○To emphasize the impact of seepage on water levels
○To point out that seepage is calculated differently from river flows and atmospheric exchanges
○To compare the different methods of calculating seepage
○To emphasize the difficulty of obtaining specific values for seepage inputs and outputs
○on the other hand
○in the same way
○in other words
○on average
○A lake that is fed by streams but still has fluctuating water levels
○A lake with a constant water level that has no streams or rivers as inputs
○A lake with a stream flowing into it and a stream flowing out of it
○A lake that has surface and underground inputs but loses water during dry seasons
○depends entirely upon the average speed of a lake' s currents
○can be measured by the volume of the lake alone
○can be greater or lesser than the residence time
○is similar to the length of time all other molecules remain in that lake
○Lake Erie has a larger area than Lake Ontario.
○Lake Ontario is shallower than Lake Erie.
○Lake Ontario has a greater volume than Lake Erie.
○Lake Erie receives less rainfall than Lake Ontario.
○To demonstrate the extent to which residence times vary from lake to lake
○To illustrate how residence times are calculated for specific lakes
○To argue that the residence time of a lake increases with area
○To emphasize that Lake Tahoe' s residence time is unusually long


10. According to paragraph 5, major ceremonial events were occasions for
○leaders to persuade people from the countryside to move into a pueblo
○farmers to collect information about where crops could be reliably grown
○people to develop better techniques for producing pottery and crafts
○people in the early Puebloan era to share farm and craft products


10. The word further in the passage is closest in meaning to
○expected
○additional
○serious
○unfortunate


11. According to paragraph 6, which of the following explains the increase in residence time of some lakes of northwestern Ontario?
○The amount of water flowing into the lakes has increased.
○The rate of evaporation has decreased more sharply than the amount of rainfall.
○The renewal of the lakes' water has slowed due to changes in climate.
○Plants have required less water from the lakes
○amount of rainfall
○rate of evaporation
○temperature of surrounding air
○concentration of chemicals in lake water


13.​Look at the four squares III that indicate where the following sentence could be added to the passage.
Of course, a lake may be neither surface-water-nor seepage-dominated if, for example, its inputs are predominantly surface and its outputs are predominantly seepage.
Where would the sentence best fit? Click on a square to add the sentence to the passage.
○
○By measuring the water quantities at each of a lake's inputs and outputs, it can be determined whether water enters the lake mainly from surface or groundwater sources.
○Changes in lake level and volume are caused principally by the amount of evaporation of water into the atmosphere.
○It is sometimes possible to decide whether a lake is surface water dominated or seepage dominated by simple observation at different seasons.
○The average period of time that molecules of water spend in a lake—the residence time—varies from lake to lake and overtime within a particular lake.
○The residence times of surface-water-dominated lakes are usually longer than those of seepage-dominated lakes.
○The residence time of a lake frequently depends on the kinds of organisms to be found in the lake.


